


                                                             FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
                                      Contacts: Ross M. Greenberg,  (212)-889-6431
                                                Marc Adler,         (201)-912-0192
                                                Greg Comeau,        (718)-849-2355


                         THE PROGRAMMER'S CO_OPERATIVE:                                 
                       By Programmers and For Programmers

        April  10,  1988 --- The Programmer's Co_operative,  dedicated to providing 
        software  authors and developers with the unique services they  require  at 
        the lowest prices it can arrange, is opening its doors to new members.

        Founders Marc Adler,  Greg Comeau, and Ross M. Greenberg are three software 
        authors  who decided it was time to act to resolve problems they discovered 
        all software authors faced.

        "Independent  software developers,  the one or two  person  operation,  are 
        overwhelmed  by the costs of providing highly specialized services as  they 
        need them.",  said President Ross M.  Greenberg.  "We share costs,  provide 
        marketing  and  sales services,  bring volume discounts on advertising  and 
        materials, and provide other services our members need."

        Few  software  authors  have expertise in the diverse  fields  required  to 
        market  and  support a successful product,  according  to  co-founder  Marc 
        Adler.  This  makes  it  difficult and expensive for a new  product  to  be 
        introduced or even to appear on the market.

        "Just  producing  a single ad and placing it in a national publication  can 
        cost individual developers more time, effort and money then they can afford 
        to  spend.  We  offer each software author the benefit of  working  with  a 
        larger  organization,  of  having  some  clout.",  Greg  Comeau  of  Comeau 
        Computing pointed out.

        Members of The Programmer's Co_operative pay a $250 one-time initiation fee 
        and  a small quarterly membership fee.   All Co_op members are entitled  to 
        use  any Co_op services at 10% above Co_op cost.  Non-members may use Co_op 
        services, as available, at 15-25% above Co_op cost.

        Among  the  services  the Co_op offers or plans to offer  to  its  members: 
        volume  advertising  discounts  on  single  or  multiple  inserts,   volume 
        discounts  on production and distribution materials,  and distribution  and 
        fulfillment services. The Co_op will also offer catalog sales, marketing and 
        PR services,  documentation preparation and printing,  legal services,  and 
        postal services such as mail forwarding and bulk rates.

        The  Co_op is now retaining a telemarketing organization to handle sales of 
        products produced by Co_op members.  According to Greenberg this will allow 
        the  developers to concentrate on the thing they do  best:  create  quality 
        software.

        "For  the first time,  even the independent developer can have a chance  to 
        succeed as we all band together. By programmers and for programmers. That's 
        what the Co_op is all about, and why it's working.", Greenberg stated.

        For more information regarding The Programmer's Co_operative,  contact them 
        at 594 Third Avenue, New York, New York, 10016
