TITLE: 950118 APTIVA APPLICATION PROBLEMS UNDER WARP.

DESCRIPTION OF SYMPTOMS:

After installing WARP on Aptiva machines there are a number of
problems with the applications that are shipped with the
machine. Below are some problems are being identified and
fixes:
1. The proper icons for some of the applications is replaced by the
   OS/2 standard Windows icon.  This will be fixed in a future release
   of OS/2.

2. For Undersea Adventure and Discoverers do the following:
  a. Edit the file C:\SEA\KA.CNF and change the CDdrive field from E
     to D and do a change of all the E: to D:.  Save the changed file
  b. Edit the file C:\SEA\SEA.BAT and change of all the E: to D:.
     Save the changed file
  c. Edit the file C:\SEA\DISCOVER.BAT and change of all the E: to
     D:.  Save the changed file
  d. Go to the "Settings" notebook for each of the two programs by
     doing the following and make the indicated changes:
     1) Point the mouse pointer at the icon
     2) Press the right mouse button once to get the context menu
     3) Move the mouse pointer to Settings and press the left mouse
        button once
     4) Change the "Path and file name:" field from
        C:\SEA\PS1CDROM.EXE (in the Undersea Adventure)
        C:\DISCOVER\PS1CDROM.EXE (in the Discoverers) to
        C:\WINDOWS\PS1CDROM.EXE
     5) Press the left mouse button on the "Session" tab
     6) Press the "WIN-OS/2 settings button
     7) Select the DOS Memory settings
     8) Set DOS_HIGH to ON
     9) Set DOS_UMB to ON and save the settings
    10) Select the button for WIN-OS2 full screen
    11) Double click the control box in the upper left corner of the
        "Settings" notebook to close it.
    Note: Sound currently does not work for the Discoverers
          application.  This is being worked on.

3. Reuters - When Reuters (Money Network) is started from it's
   migrated icon or from Windows Program Manager it displays "...not
   enough file handles..." dialog. Program can not open or create
   files. The README.WRI file recommends 100 file handles be specifies
   when running under OS/2.  Set DOS_FILES to 100 with the following
   steps:
 a. Point the mouse pointer at the Reuters icon
 b. Press the right mouse button once to get the context menu
 c. Move the mouse pointer to Settings and press the left mouse
    button once
 d. Press the left mouse button on the "Session" tab
 e. Press the "WIN-OS/2 settings button
 f. Select the Other DOS settings
 g. Set DOS_FILES to 100 and save the settings
 h. Double click the control box in the upper left corner of the
    "Settings" notebook to close it.

4. The following are some of the problems being addressed.
 a. Music Mentor gets a General Protection Fault when the "To
    Session" button is pressed.
 b. Rapid Resume does not currently work under OS/2
 c. Running Disney Software Preview seamless hangs the system


