From ankh.iia.org!uunet!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!mvb.saic.com!bethel.connected.com!gibeah.connected.com!not-for-mail Tue Aug 23 00:58:52 1994
Path: ankh.iia.org!uunet!cs.utexas.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!swrinde!ihnp4.ucsd.edu!mvb.saic.com!bethel.connected.com!gibeah.connected.com!not-for-mail
From: palmbank@connected.com (Petrus Johannes van de Waal-Palms)
Newsgroups: alt.current-events.ukraine
Subject: Who Owns Ukraine
Date: 22 Aug 1994 14:53:24 -0700
Organization: Connected INC -- Full Server Internet Provider (tm)
Lines: 297
Message-ID: <33b6ok$97a@gibeah.connected.com>
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]


/Rom///;ps100
////;FN4,1
////;FT
////;FN4,2
//


//;cj
//WHO OWNS THE UKRAINE? 

BY

/Rom/IV
/Rom/
/Rom/./Rom/./Rom/.
/Rom/, /Rom/UKRAINIAN VENTURE CAPITAL FUND OF AMERICA 
Fax 1 (206) 827-5526
//;bj
//
The answer is quite simple. Whomever controls and enforces the exchange rate
 That power is a comprehensive check-mate on all other forms of property owner
ship. Exchange rate ownership is ownership of the Ukraine. Ownership of the
 Ukraine currency exchange rate gives absolute dictatorial power to decide the
 value of everything within the Ukraine including the value of human labor.
 This right is retroactive and can be applied to any industrial and human
 productive effort after the investment of time and energy. It is like
 gambling with chips, where the value of the chips is decided after the 
game is over, and it is decided by one player who is allowed by the other
 players to make this decision. Will he judge fairly or in his own selfish
 interests? Such dictatorial power does not exist anywhere in the governments
 of any Western nation. Yet this power has been assumed by elected officials
 constituting the elected representatives of the Ukrainian people without
 consultation with, nor the approval of the Ukrainian people.
 Is it any wonder the Ukrainian people and the rest of the world are losing
 interest in playing the game without rules.
Its seems a wonderful power to take and have, because an individual with such 
power seems to be able to keep himself rich in a country which is growing 
poorer each day. But if an elected official uses that power in that way he, 
at once is no longer the government of the people in the Ukraine but only the 
tyrannical Government of the Ukraine, representing himself. With such power 
it is not necessary to have a budget or to limit taxes. Control of the 
exchange rate is the power to tax 100% of human labor and industrial 
production. It is the only power that can increase taxes above 100% for it 
can tax whatever remains in existence in the country, even what has been 
taxed already the year before. It is the power to take what is left of the 
Ukrainian  people's energy and transfer it to the people in the positions of 
the government without moral justification or reason. It is the power to make 
the tax the total amount of all effort and all results. This is the ultimate 
form of exploitation, because it uses the law to exploit. It changes the law 
from the will of the people to the will of the nomenklatura. Control of the 
exchange rate makes possible legal stealing by the government from the 
people. It allows crime to become the law of the land. It is a disincentive 
to economic development and breeds stagnation.

Was it ever the intention of the Ukrainian people to give such power to their 
elected representatives? Is a country like the Ukraine, which is desperately 
in need of capital and profits with which to increase its machinery and 
technology and productivity, going to benefit by having currency exchange 
rates in the control of a government, which makes its first priority the 
survival of the government at all cost? What incentive is there for the 
government to take actions which are beneficial to the economy of the Ukraine 
when its manipulation of the exchange rate, at the expense of the Ukrainian 
laborer, is absolutely necessary to perpetuate its own survival  Is such a 
power consistent with serving the people or exploiting the people? There is a 
fundamental conflict of interest between such government employees and the 
Ukrainian people as well as the Ukraine. The government cannot solve problems 
of the people if it is not an instrument of the people. The government is the 
problem preventing the solution. The government must not control the 
inalienable right which belong only to the people. 

It was said centuries ago "Taxation without representation is tyranny" It is 
still true. The Ukraine today needs the Ukrainian people's work results to 
rebuild The Ukraine and her economy and their own lives. First the lives must 
be rebuilt before these lives can support or need a government. The Ukrainian 
government follows a policy of speaking for the interest of the nomenklatura 
who have chosen to serve themselves, when it tries to take power over the 
exchnage rate of the people. It abuses the power of Law of the people.

Can such an usurpation of competence survive? No it cannot. Like a parasite 
feeding on the Ukraine and the Ukrainian people as its host, the Government 
will drain and suffocate both, until no act further act of tyranical law can 
any longer support this parasite. Will it kill its hosts. No. In all history 
the host has always found a way to reject and dispose of the parasite before 
death occurs. But the longer the host fails to take action and tolerates the 
parasite, the weaker The Ukraine will become. To presume that this period of 
tolerance and patience is one of rebuilding the economy that will be 
implemented by the parasite itself, The Government, is the most illogical 
self deception the host can conceive of.   

What is needed today in the Ukraine is (1) an independent market arbitrator 
of the exchange rate, (2) a limitation of the percentage of human labor 
effort that may be allocated to the government from the people, (3) and the 
allocation of all other human effort to rebuilding the Nation and the economy 
using profits and savings to create sanity of human purpose.

In all other nations it has been demonstrated that the government itself 
cannot be relied upon to solve these questions and limit its growth. The 
power of government must be limited by the people. Unlimited power brings 
economic disaster and corruption. When the government is allowed to allocate 
to itself its own budget through control of the exchange rate, it will 
allocate everything that exists to itself. Unlimited government brings the 
destruction of a country and a people.

A smart parasite would permit the survival of its hosts. A market exchange 
rate will enable the hosts to continue to support the parasite. That is so 
obvious that one can only wonder at the self destructiveness of the parasite.
 Survival is possible with a Ukrainian labor force that is free to produce. 
It has long been established that the lower the tax rate the more taxes are
 actually paid because more is produced. Any other policy is insanity.
 The government must have confidence in the people.
 Since the people are the government this means they must have officials
 who have confidence in themselves and the Ukrainian people.


The world is waiting to see when the Ukraine will awake and when its people 
will allocate to the government the limitations of its proper function. 
Government is an instrumentality of the people. Government is a tool of the 
people. Without people there is no need or purpose for government. The 
Government officials  the Ukraine seems to have forgotten that. The people of 
the Ukraine deserve such a govenrment as long as they forget their 
responsibility to control their government.

Both need to be reminded of it so they can create a Government  the people. 
When that happens both the people of the Ukraine and the Ukraine itself can 
start the real job of rebuilding their country and their lives and government 
officials will serve a useful purpose in that goal. Until then government 
officials are irrelevant and counter-productive. The hosts will rid 
themselves of the parasite before it consumes them. When the Ukrainian people 
awake to the fact that they are the government, life will become normal. If 
todays Ukrainian politicians want to become the real leaders of the Ukraine 
they have little time left to learn this lesson of history, or pass the way 
of all other failures in history. Only success survives. Only moral right 
acheives success.

//;CJ
//THE SOLUTION 
//;BJ
//
It is quite clear that the responsibility for poor government is the 
responsibility of the people of the Ukraine, not the elected officials. If 
these officials were not tolerated they would change. There is an old saying. 
"People get the kind of government they deserve". The person placed in the 
office can be changed every week but nothing will change until the Ukrainian 
people find their beliefs and place people in office who share them.

You and I continue to be connected to the evil force in our combined 
consciousness which attracts misery and misfortune into our lives. We have 
not learned that the only power it has is the power we give to it. It 
happened may years ago. We lost our identity and forgot who we are.

Two thousand years ago we were reminded who we are. Since then, with all the 
mental work we have engaged in over 2000 years to make this a better world, 
the results can be likened to pouring water into a swollen river. The 
solution lies in giving up our mortal sense of existence and acknowledging 
that "I of myself can do nothing". The secret to success lies in 
rediscovering our oneness with God. The absence of that word in Ukrainian 
Government plans is a real clue to the reason for the bad results. We are 
IN this world but not OF this world. We are a spirtual consciouness of God's 
world without which we can solve nothing.

As you remember and acknowledge and live your spiritual identity and Being, 
the attributes of your MASTER SELF, one day someone will ask you your name 
and instantly all the parts of Devine Individualism will blend as one, and 
the words will flash in your mind: "I AM the Christ of God". And silently 
and powerfully you will acknowledge the other person as ONE and the SAME. 
This is happening daily all over the world in the greatest spirtual awakening 
in the History of humankind. This is what gave Eastern Europe and the Ukraine 
its independence. The scales are tipping...the critical mass is approaching.

Imagine that you are tuned to the Divine frequency of your real Christ Nature 
and hear these words of assurance puring from within. Would not your life and 
The Ukraine, and your economy be changed? Ponder the words carefully for they 
are from the everlasting Teachings of the ONE.

"Yes I keep my promises. I even had my assurances put in writing in passages 
of the Bible and other sacred works. This was my contract with you, which did 
not require your signature to go into effect, for my promises are Law. Your 
only responsibility is to acknowledge that I exist and to believe what I 
said. It is as simple as that.

I have said, as it is written, that I will bring all good that I promised, 
and I have promised much. I have said that you can call upon me in the day of 
trouble and I will deliver you, and I emphasized my love for you by saying 
that even before you call I will answer.

I have said that you must not fear, for I am with you, that in my presence is 
fullness of joy. I have asked that you trust me with all your heart and trust 
not in your own understanding. Do you see the significance of this? It is MY 
understanding that pierces the illusion, not yours. It is MY power that 
removes the difficulty, not yours. Trust me. Lean on me.

Until you transcend the ego you can do nothing but add to the insanity of the 
world. That statement should delight you rather than create dispair, for it 
removes the burdon from your shoulders. While you learn and grow let your 
consciousness unfold, I will do the work for you through you as you. But I 
must have your total attention. This is what I meant when I said that by 
acknowledging me in all your ways I would direct your paths.

I have promised you strange and wonderful things, if only you would place 
your faith in me and not in the outer world. I have said that I go before 
you, and that I would perform that which is yours to do. Could I make it any 
plainer?

I have promised you unlimited prosperity and contrary to your belief, I have 
not imposed conditions. I give freely to saint and sinner; it is your 
consciousness that imposes the limitations. But I have told you how to 
surmount this obstacle.

As it is written, you are told that as long as you seek me you are made to 
prosper. The seeking is the key, for you cannot fully focus on the outer 
world of limitations while searching for me and my Kingdom is within you.

You have been told that the meek shall possess the land and delight 
themselves in abundant prosperity. Do you know what "meek" means? It comes 
from the acient word depicting that which is unresistant, easily molded. 
Look again at what I said: Those who do not resist their good and who consent 
to have their consciousness molded by me shall possess the land and delight 
themselves in abundant prosperity.

As it is written, I have opened unto you my treasure, insuring that you 
always have an all sufficiency in all things. And when I said to simply love 
me and you would have peace within your walls and prosperity within your 
palaces, I was giving you the secret of the Law of Attraction. To love me 
with all your being is to draw forth my Kingdom into your consciousness, and 
the fullness of my abundance is made evident in your world.

I have promised you wholeness, saying, as it is written, that I am the Lord 
your healer, that I heal all your deseases, restore health to you, and heal 
your wounds. This is not to come. It is. In Truth, you are healed 
now.....you are whole.

To those who revere my name, the sun of righteousness shall rise with healing 
in its wings. Think on this and see the simple instructions. A single eye on 
the Holy Self within receives Light into consciousness, revealing the absence 
of desease and the already-present reality of wholeness. I am the Fountain of 
Healing-Life. Will you not drink freely of me?

I have promised you protection. As it is wrtitten, when you pass thorugh the 
waters I will be with you, and the rivers will not overflow you, and when you 
walk through fire you will not be burned. Even if a host of enemies should 
encamp against you, you will not fear, for I will hide you. Stay close to me 
and let my shield shine through your consciousness to form a ring-pass-not.

Is anything hard for me? No. And who am I? I am You. Not the human you but 
the Spiritual You, the Master You, the one called priest after the order of 
Melchizedek. One day soon you will awaken, and my Consciousness will be yours 
and nothing will be impossible to you. He who comes to you then shall never 
hunger, and he who believes on you shall never thirst, and he who follows you 
shall not walk in darkness. For I will be You and You will be ME, eternally 
the one and only Reality.

"I keep my promises".

Why then do you ask what is happening, or what you should do, or how it will 
end. You already know these things. What ever you want, you have only to say 
it, and I will create it for you. I am listening Ukraine.

My Ukrainian friends, Taken in the context of whom we really are, we have all 
the answers. The solution could start tomorrow. You have the free will to 
procratinate. I have chosen not to procrastinate and recognize whom I AM. 
I can tell you I am very satisfied with the results and recommend to you a 
similar course of action. I am not concerned about the Ukraine project that 
is before us to do since neither I nor you will be doing it. The Master 
within us all is perfectly aware of what is to be done. and by keeping our 
minds focused on the Presence, Spirit will work through our awareness to 
accomplish everything easily, effortlessly and creatively. We don't have to 
get uptight about anything anymore.

/Rom/IV
/Rom/, /Rom//"Palms & Co., Inc."/Rom/Nationality: Dutch
/Rom/Residence: 515 Lake Street South, Suite 103, Kirkland WA98033 U.S.A.
Fax 1 (206) 827-5528 Tel. 1 (206) 828-6774

P.S. E-Mail "SOVMAIL X400address (C:USA,A:TELEMAIL,O:MER.1,UN:ITA)
Outside Russia: /DD.UN=ITA/O=MER.1/ADMD=TELEMAIL/C=US@SPRINT.COM
Fax 1 (206) 827-5528
Internet: PalmsBank.hebron.connected.comn

//;pa 
////;cj
//Other titles available 

How to accurately calculate a budget for the Ukraine Government that will 
provide improvement in the economy.

How to guarantee an improvement in the Ukraine economy.

How to increase the minimum wage in the Ukraine to $70.00 per month - $100 
per month and $300 per month.

How to attract a total of $1 trillion dollars of investment capital to the 
Ukraine by 1999.

How to increase Ukrainian hard currency earnings from exports by 1000%



