HTMLed - An HTML Editor for Microsoft Windows

About HTMLed

HTMLed is an editor for Microsoft Windows 3.1 to be used to create HTML
(Hypertext Markup Language) documents.  Information on WWW (World-Wide-Web) 
servers is usually in HTML format.

HTMLed is distributed under the shareware concept.
Please see README.TXT for registration information.

HTMLed is produced by I-Net Training & Consulting Ltd.
Contact us at:

Internet Software Technologies
P.O. Box 756
Sackville, New Brunswick, Canada
E0A 3C0
inettc@nbnet.nb.ca
(506) 364-8088

Features:

Reads, writes UNIX files
Foreign character tags support
Implements the full set of HTML markup tags
Floating toolbars
Customizable floating toolbar
Multiple Document Interface
"Intelligent" insertion of HTML tags on a line-by-line basis
Converts the URLs in a MOSAIC.INI file to an HTML document
while retaining the original menu structure.
"Test" button to launch an HTML browser to test your HTML document.
Saves files without HTML tags


Using HTMLed

About the menus.

File Menu
Edit Menu
Search Menu
Element Menu
List Menu
Link Menu
Style Menu
Entity Menu
Options Menu
Window Menu


File Menu

This menu performs actions such as opening and saving files.  HTMLed allows 
you to save files in either MS-DOS or UNIX format.  MS-DOS text files have 
a CR-LF (carriage return & line feed) pair at the end of each line.  UNIX 
text files have only a line feed character.  When opening a file, HTMLed will 
attempt to determine which type of file it is, and open it in the appropriate 
mode.  Also on the file menu is an option to save a file as plain text, without
any HTML tags.  The option to "Test HTML Document"  will launch a program
(such as NCSA Mosaic) and pass the current file name to the program as a 
command-line parameter.  The path to this program must be configured in the 
Options|Setup dialog box.

Edit Menu

This menu contains options to select, cut, and paste text within and between 
documents, using the Windows Clipboard so you can cut and paste to other 
applications.  The "Remove HTML Tags" option allows you to select a block of
text and remove all the HTML tags from the selected text.

Search Menu

This menu contains options to search and replace text in a document.
The "Intelligent Tag Insert" allows you to insert text at the start,
end, or both the start and end of lines in an HTML document.  You can
select the lines to be affected by specifying a string that is either
at the beginning or end, or that is contained in a line.  For example,
you could insert <H1> and </H1> at the beginning and end of every line
that ends with a colon (":").

Example:

Original text is

    Some heading:
    Blah blah blah...
    ...
    ...

    Some other heading:
    Blah blah blah again...
    ...
    ...

After Intelligent Tag insert

    <H1>Some heading:</H1>

    Blah blah blah...
    ...
    ...

    <H1>Some other heading:</H1>

    Blah blah blah again...
    ...
    ...


Element Menu

The items on this menu insert various HTML markup tags in the document.
Note that some tags, such as TITLE are 'containers', which means that
they are 'wrapped' around the text to which they apply.  For this type of,
tag, you should first select the text you want to be in the container, and
then select the menu option (or button or shortcut key).  Other tags
are single tags and will be inserted at the current cursor position.

List Menu

These items will create various types of lists from the selected text.
HTMLed will operate on the selected text in the following manner:
If there is no whitespace at the beginning of a line, a <LI> tag will
be inserted.  If there is whitespace, it will be assumed that this
line is part of the previous list item.

Link Menu

These options pop up dialog boxes so you can enter the appropriate 
information to create links to HTML documents and images.

Style Menu

These menu items allow you to format text in various styles.  Select the text 
you wish to format and then select the desired style.

Entity Menu

HTML entities are representations of special characters, such as "&gt;" (without 
the quotes) which is a greater-than sign (">").  Entities are also used for other special
characters such as foreign characters which are not part of the standard 7-bit ASCII 
character set.  The "Make Acute", "Make Circumflex", etc. items allow you to select a 
character and then add an accent to it. HTMLed will only allow you to add accents to
create characters which are valid in HTML.


Options Menu

The Options menu gives access to the Setup dialog, where configuration options for HTMLed
are set, and also to the custom toolbar setup dialog.  This dialog box is used to configure the 
custom toolbar.  There are also items which toggle between displaying and not displaying the 
four different floating toolbars.  "Convert mosaic.ini to HTML file" will take the URLs in 
NCSA Mosaic's .INI file and produce an HTML page containing them.


Window Menu

This menu contains options for tiling and cascading open windows.  A list of currently open windows 
in HTMLed is also on this menu.

