
INTRODUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2

INSTALLATION TROUBLESHOOTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3

     ST412/506 interface drives  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
          General information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
          17XX error messages  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5

     SCSI interface drives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
          General information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    6
          SCSI error messages  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    7

     Your drive does not power up  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8

FORMAT TROUBLESHOOTING . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9

     Errors encountered in low-level format  . . . . . . . .   10
          Configuring your AT system setup . . . . . . . . .   10
          2-digit error codes  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   11
          Formatting takes an unreasonably long time . . . .   12
          System hangs when you enter the debug address  . .   13
          "Drive fails recal or test drive ready" error in       
 Disk Manager  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14    I/O errors
in Disk Manager . . . . . . . . . . . .   15

     Errors encountered in FDISK or partitioning . . . . . .   16

     Errors encountered in the high-level format . . . . . .   17
          "Invalid drive specification" error message  . . .   17
          "Track 0 bad, disk unusable" error message . . . .   18
          "Insert diskette for drive C:" in an XT system . .   19

     Additional format troubleshooting . . . . . . . . . . .   20
          Trouble getting the full capacity of the drive . .   20
          "Disk boot failure" error message when trying to       
 boot from the hard drive  . . . . . . . . . .   21    Unable to
access any partition beyond the C:
               partition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   22
          Unable to access the second physical drive . . . .   23
          Bad sectors reported in CHKDSK . . . . . . . . . .   24
          Jumper settings for the ST4096 and ST4144R . . . .   25

APPENDIX - Where else to go for help . . . . . . . . . . . .   26

APPENDIX - Dynamic Parameters  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   27

APPENDIX - Drive types . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   28

APPENDIX - Disk Manager Walk-Thru - Manual Mode  . . . . . .   29

                                                           2
INTRODUCTION

The following information is for general reference.  It is not
intended to be a complete reference to computer or hard disc
drive service information.  If you need assistance or further
information, please contact your dealer.





AT and XT are registered trademarks of International Business 
Machines.

Disk Manager is a registered trademark of Ontrack Computer
Systems, Inc.

                                                           3
INSTALLATION TROUBLESHOOTING

CAUTION:  BE CERTAIN THAT ANY DRIVE CONTAINING DATA IS FULLY
BACKED UP BEFORE YOU BEGIN TROUBLESHOOTING.  THESE PROCEDURES MAY
RESULT IN LOSS OF DATA.  Do not touch any board components or
connectors without observing static-discharge precautions.  Use a
grounded wrist strap or ground yourself frequently by touching
the metal chassis of your system before handling any components.
Before removing the system cover to perform troubleshooting
procedures, turn off the system and disconnect the power from the
computer.

The following procedures may require opening your system and
removing or installing components.  If you are not comfortable
doing these things, you may want to consult a qualified PC
technician.

                                                           4
ST412/506 interface drives

General information

PLEASE BACK UP ANY DATA YOU MAY HAVE STORED ON YOUR DRIVE BEFORE
ATTEMPTING ANY OF THE FOLLOWING PROCEDURES.  THESE PROCEDURES
COULD RESULT IN PARTIAL OR COMPLETE LOSS OF DATA. 

If your drive is installed and formatted properly and it still
does not work, the following is a list of possible problem areas
to check:

Make sure all cables are securely attached and not stressed or
pinched by other devices in the system.  Check that the stripe
down one side of each cable is lined up with pin 1 on the
controller card.  Make sure that no pins are bent or sticking out
of the cables.

Make sure that the drive is powered up with a power cable from
the power supply.  Can you hear the drive power up when you turn
the system on?  See page 8 for information on power problems.

Check that the controller card is fitted securely into the slot
on the motherboard.  You may want to try another slot in the
computer.

                                                           5
17XX error messages

If you are getting a 1700 error message upon booting the system,
it may be due to one of the following common errors:

1790 is an error on disc 1, your C: drive.  This error is nothing
to worry about in a new installation, it simply means that your
drive needs to be formatted.
1791 is the same message referring to your second hard drive.

1780 errors usually refer to your cabling and drive select -
check these again!  This error refers to your first drive. 1781
is the same message referring to your second hard drive.

1701 and 1780/1781 errors can mean many things.  Basically, they
mean that the system does not recognize your hard drive.  These
errors are commonly caused by a mistake in installation.  Make
sure the drive select jumper is installed in the correct position
on your drive or try your controller in another slot.  Check that
the cables are correctly attached and that the drive is getting
the proper power from your system power supply.

If, after verifying that the installation is correct, you still
get a 1701, 1780, or 1781 error, you may have a faulty component. 
To isolate the problem to a specific component, try individually
swapping the cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try
your drive in another system to determine which component is
faulty.  If you need more help isolating the problem, please
contact your dealer.

                                                           6
SCSI interface drives

General information

PLEASE BACK UP ANY DATA YOU MAY HAVE STORED ON YOUR DRIVE BEFORE
ATTEMPTING ANY OF THE FOLLOWING TROUBLESHOOTING PROCEDURES. 
THESE PROCEDURES COULD RESULT IN PARTIAL OR COMPLETE LOSS OF
DATA.

If your drive is installed and formatted properly and it still
does not work, the following is a list of possible problem areas
to check:

If your Seagate SCSI drive is in an AT system and you are getting
a 1700 error message upon booting the system, remove the drive
from the CMOS setup in your AT.  No drive type is required for
SCSI drives.

Make sure the 50-pin cable is securely attached and not stressed
or pinched by other devices in the system.  Check that the stripe
down one side of the cable is lined up with pin 1 on the host
adapter.  Make sure that no pins are bent or sticking out of the
cable.

Make sure that the drive is powered up with a power cable from
the power supply.  Can you hear the drive power up when you turn
the system on?  See page 8 for information on power problems.

Check that the host adapter is fitted securely into the slot on
the motherboard.  You may want to try another slot in the
computer.

                                                           7
SCSI error messages

If you are getting error messages such as "No SCSI device found"
or "0 hard drives present" upon booting the system, check your
installation by consulting your installation manuals or your
dealer.

If you verified that the installation is correct, try
individually swapping the 50-pin SCSI cable, the host adapter, or
the drive, to verify which component is faulty.  If you need more
help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.

If error messages such as "Mode sense error," "Inquiry error," or
"Adapter self-test failed" occur when booting or your drive
issues a series of one to seven flashes from the drive's front-
panel LED on power-up, it is likely that your drive is defective.
Contact your dealer for repair and warranty information.

                                                           8
Your drive does not power up

If your drive is malfunctioning or you do not hear the drive
power-up when you turn on your system, you should check the
following conditions:

Make sure you are getting adequate power to the drive, as
described below.  You must be able to supply the drive with the
maximum power required at power on.  See drive specifications for
your drive power requirements.

You can verify that the drive is getting power by measuring the
voltage on the drive PC board with a voltmeter.  The power
connector from the power supply to your hard disc has four wire
connections.  The two inside connections are grounds and are
black in color.  One of the outside wires is red in color and
provides the +5 volt source.  This voltage should be between 4.8
and 5.2 VDC.  The other outside write is usually yellow in color
and provides the +12 volt source.  This voltage should be between
11.5 and 12.6 VDC.  You can also check the drive by plugging it
into another system with a known good power supply to verify that
it functions.

If your drive is receiving the proper power, it should then
power-on.  If the drive is not working, contact your dealer for
repair and warranty information.

                                                           9
FORMAT TROUBLESHOOTING

CAUTION:  BE CERTAIN THAT ANY DRIVE CONTAINING DATA IS FULLY
BACKED UP BEFORE YOU BEGIN TROUBLESHOOTING.  THESE PROCEDURES MAY
RESULT IN LOSS OF DATA.  Do not touch any board components or
connectors without observing static-discharge precautions.  Use a
grounded wrist strap or ground yourself frequently by touching
the metal chassis of your system before handling any components.
Before removing the system cover to perform troubleshooting
procedures, turn off the system and disconnect the power from the
computer.

The following procedures may require opening your system and
removing or installing components.  If you are not comfortable
doing these things, you may want to consult a qualified PC
technician.

                                                           10
Errors encountered in low-level format

Configuring your AT system setup

To properly format, you must enter the correct drive type for
your Seagate drive in your system setup.  See page 28 for a list
of common drive types for Seagate drives.

If you are using Disk Manager to format your drive and are having
trouble getting the drive parameters setup correctly, change the
drive type listing in your system setup.  Disk Manager usually
selects the correct drive type for your system, but you need to
first remove any old drive type listing from your system setup. 
Go into your setup routine and specify that there is "No hard
drive installed" - sometimes this is done by entering a type 0. 
Save this setup then power your system down.  Then you can power
up your system and run Disk Manager to choose the correct setup
type for your drive.  Your system should now be configured
properly.

                                                           11 
2-digit error codes

The following is a brief explanation of the more common 2-digit
error codes:

An error code 80 is a time-out error.  Error code 40 is a seek
failure.  An error code 20 is an invalid command or a controller
failure.  All of these errors indicate an installation or format
problem or a faulty component.

Check your drive installation, make sure that the cables are
correctly and securely attached, the drive select jumper is
installed in the proper position, and that the controller is
correctly installed.  Also make sure that you used the correct
parameters in the low-level format.  Check that the drive is
getting the proper power.

To isolate the problem to a specific component, individually swap
the cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try your drive
in another system to verify which component is faulty.  If you
need more help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.

                                                           12
Formatting takes an unreasonably long time

A format that takes too long or never concludes can result when
the drive parameters are incorrectly entered during the debug
procedure.  If your low-level format routine asks if you wish to
"dynamically configure the drive," enter "y" for yes.  See page
27 for a list of dynamic configuration parameters for Seagate
drives.  If these parameters were entered correctly and the
problem persists, check your drive installation.  Make sure the
cables are properly attached and that the jumpers are correctly
installed.

To isolate the problem to a specific component, try individually
swapping the cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try
your drive in another system to verify which component is faulty.
If you need more help isolating the problem, please contact your
dealer.

                                                           13
System hangs when you enter the debug address

The system will hang when you enter the debug command if the
wrong address is entered or if the controller's address is
conflicting with the memory location of another card in the
system.  Check the address jumpers on the controller card.

Contact your dealer or the controller manufacturer, or see your
controller card or host adapter documentation for further
information on address jumper settings.

                                                           14
"Drive fails recal or test drive ready" error in Disk Manager

The "drive fails recal or test drive ready" error is commonly
caused by a mistake in installation.  Make sure the drive select
jumper is installed in the correct position.  Check that the
cables are correctly attached and that the drive is getting the
proper power.

If, after verifying that the installation is correct, you still
get this error, you may have a faulty component.  To isolate the
problem to a specific component, try individually swapping the
cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try your drive in
another system to determine which component is faulty.  If you
need more help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.

                                                            15
I/O errors in Disk Manager

If you encounter an occasional "Uncorrectable ECC - I/O error"
message during the initialization while using Disk Manager, don't
worry.  This simply means that the program has found and mapped
out an error on the disk surface.

You will receive a "No record found - I/O error" message if you
try to verify a drive that has not yet been initialized.

If you receive an "Unrecoverable I/O error" message or other I/O
error message on every cylinder and head, there are several
possible causes.  If you are formatting a drive in an XT or are
using an 8-bit controller in an AT, you should low-level format
the drive through debug using the controller's BIOS format
routine.  See your controller or host adapter documentation for
further information on formatting through debug.

In an AT system using a 16-bit controller, I/O errors may occur
if the drive type entered in your system setup is not the correct
type for your hard drive.  Run Disk Manager in "manual mode" or
use your system's setup routine to change the drive type.  For a
step-by-step walk-through using Disk Manager in the manual mode,
see page 29.  See page 28 for a list of common AT drive types
for Seagate drives.

If you ran Disk Manager in "manual mode" and were unsuccessful,
you should verify that your installation is correct.  Make sure
your cables are installed correctly.

If you still receive I/O errors, you may have a faulty component.
To isolate the problem to a specific component, try individually
swapping the cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try
your drive in another system to verify which component is faulty.
If you need more help isolating the problem, please contact your
dealer.

                                                           16
Errors encountered in FDISK or partitioning

FDISK is a DOS partitioning program found on your DOS diskette.
FDISK will partition your drive into one DOS partition and one
extended DOS partition depending on your version of DOS.  Please
note that DOS 3.2 or lower does not create extended DOS
partitions and cannot partition drives over 32 MB.  If you have a
drive which is greater than 32 MB and do not have DOS 3.3 or
higher, you will need to partition the drive with Disk Manager or
another partitioning software.

If you encounter an error in FDISK such as "Error reading fixed
disk" or "No fixed disk present" or the system hangs in FDISK,
check the following:

Check your installation - make sure the cables are installed
properly, the drive select jumper is in the correct position, and
the controller or host adapter is correctly installed.  Verify
that the low-level format was successful and that the correct
parameters were used.  If your low-level format routine asks if
you wish to "dynamically configure" the drive and you need the
correct parameters to enter, see page 27 for a list of the
Seagate drive parameters.

If, after verifying that your installation is correct and the
low-level format was performed correctly, you still have trouble
in FDISK, you may have a faulty component.  To isolate the
problem to a specific component, try individually swapping the
cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try your drive in
another system to determine which component is faulty.  If you
need more help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.

                                                           17
Errors encountered in the high-level format

"Invalid drive specification" error message

To verify that the drive partitioning was performed successfully,
run FDISK and display your partitions.  If you receive a message
such as "No partitions defined," you need to create your
partition table with FDISK, Disk Manager, or another partitioning
software.  Consult your DOS manual for further FDISK information.

If you have already defined your partitions and receive the
"Invalid drive specification" error message, recreate your
partition table, then power the system down before attempting a
high-level format.

If you still receive an "Invalid drive specification" error, you
may have a faulty component.  To isolate the problem to a
specific component, try individually swapping the cables,
controller, and drive.  You may also try your drive in another
system to determine which component is faulty.  If you need more
help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.

                                                           18
"Track 0 bad, disk unusable" error message

If you are using DOS version 3.1 and receive the error message
"Track 0 bad, disk unusable" at the end of the high-level format,
don't worry.  You will need to edit the buffers statement in your
CONFIG.SYS file to read BUFFERS=99.  Then you may reboot the
system and your high-level format will complete successfully.

If the error still occurs or you are not using DOS 3.1, verify
that the low-level format was successfully completed and that the
correct drive parameters were used.  If your low-level format
routine asks you to "dynamically configure" the drive and you
need the correct Seagate drive parameters, see page 27.

If the low-level format was performed properly and you still have
trouble, you may have a faulty component.  To isolate the
problem to a specific component, try individually swapping the
cables, controller, and drive.  You may also try your drive in
another system to verify which component is faulty.  If you need
more help isolating the problem, please contact your dealer.  
                                                            19
"Insert diskette for drive C:" in an XT system

If you receive the message "Insert diskette for drive C:" at the
beginning of the high-level format, the jumper settings on the
motherboard of your XT are probably incorrect.  Consult your
computer system manual or your dealer for more information.  
                                                            20
Additional format troubleshooting

Trouble getting the full capacity of the drive

If you are formatting your drive in an XT system or in an AT with
an 8-bit controller and are not getting the full capacity of your
drive, you may need to do the low-level format through the
controller's debug format routine.  You must enter the correct
parameters for your drive.

Contact your dealer or the controller manufacturer, or see your
controller or host adapter documentation for instructions for
formatting through debug.

See page 27 for the correct parameters to enter for dynamic
configuration of Seagate drives.

If you are using Disk Manager to format your drive in an AT and
your drive is a non-standard drive, that is, one that does not
have a corresponding entry in your machine's system setup, Disk
Manager will compensate by allowing partitions to utilize the
drive's full capacity.  These partitions will be handled by the
Disk Manager device driver, DMDRVR.BIN.  The DOS partition on a
non-standard disk can use only the part of the disk depicted by
the BIOS ROM for the particular drive type you have chosen.
Therefore, if you have a drive which does not have a drive type
entry with the correct number of heads, the DOS partition will
waste disk space.  If the head count mismatch is severe, only a
very small DOS partition would be possible without wasting a
significant portion of the capacity.  This limitation does not
apply to partitions handled by the Disk Manager device driver,
such as a Write/Read partition.  In other words, if you have a
head/cylinder count mismatch, you should create a small DOS
partition.  You can then use all of the remaining cylinders of
the disk for any other partitions.  You must invoke Disk Manager
in the "manual mode" with DM /M to control these choices.  See
page 29 for a step-by-step walk-through using Disk Manager in the
manual mode.

If you are not using Disk Manager and are having trouble getting
the full capacity of your drive, check that you are using the
correct drive type in your system setup.  If there is no drive
type which exactly matches your drive parameters, you need to use
Disk Manager or other partitioning software or upgrade your
system BIOS to reach the full capacity.

                                                           21
"Disk boot failure" error message when trying to boot from the
hard drive

If you cannot boot from the hard drive, but you can boot from
the floppy and then access the hard drive, this means your
operating system was not correctly installed on your hard drive.

Follow these steps to solve this problem:

Place your DOS boot disk in the A: drive.  At the A> prompt, type
"SYS C:" and press <enter>.  After a few seconds, a message
should appear saying "System transferred."  At the A> prompt,
type "COPY COMMAND.COM C:" and press <enter>.  These procedures
will copy the files necessary to make your drive bootable.  If
you are still unable to boot from the hard drive and you used DOS
to format and partition your drive, enter FDISK and make sure the
C: partition is active.

If you used Disk Manager to format and partition your drive,
insert the Disk Manager disk in the A: drive, and at the A>
prompt, type "DM /M," choose "P" for Partitioning and make sure
that your first partition say "DOS" under Type and "Y" under Boot
and that the partition has been prepared.

BE SURE TO BACK UP ANY DATA STORED ON YOUR HARD DRIVE BEFORE
FORMATTING YOUR DRIVE.  FORMATTING AT ANY LEVEL IS ALMOST CERTAIN
TO RESULT IN PARTIAL OR COMPLETE LOSS OF DATA.

If your system still will not boot, insert your DOS disk in the
A: drive, and at the A> prompt type "FORMAT C: /S" and press
<enter>.  If you used Disk Manager to format your drive, you will
need to install the device driver on your C: drive in order to
access additional partitions.  When formatting has completed,
insert your Disk Manager disk in the A: drive and at the A>
prompt type "COPY CONFIG.SYS C:" and press <enter>.  Then type,
at the A> prompt, "COPY DMDRVR.BIN C:."  You will now have a copy
of the Disk Manager device driver in your C: drive root directory
and an entry in your CONFIG.SYS file which reads
"DEVICE=DMDRVR.BIN."  Now boot the system from the hard disc.
Directory commands directed at all partitions should operate
correctly and CHKDSK should display the correct information as
well.

                                                           22
Unable to access any partition beyond the C: partition

The reason you cannot access other partitions is that either the
program failed to correctly copy the CONFIG.SYS file to your C:
drive root directory or you accidentally copied over your old
CONFIG.SYS file when you restored your backed up files.

In either case, if you are using Disk Manager, place the disk in
the A: drive and type, at the A> prompt, "DMCFIG" and press
<enter>.  This program will check that you have fulfilled the two
requirements for accessing the secondary partitions on boot-up: 
(1) Your CONFIG.SYS file must contain an entry which reads
"DEVICE=DMDRVR.BIN;" (2) The DMDRVR.BIN file must be copied to
the root directory of your C: drive.  You should now be able to
access all other partitions after booting to the C: drive.  If
you are using another partitioning software, you will need to
contact the manufacturer or your dealer for further information.

If you have checked and these two conditions have been met and
you still cannot access the D: drive, be certain that you have
completed the preparation part of the Disk Manager program.  At
the A> prompt, type "DM /M" and select "P" for Partitioning to
check the partition table.  

BE SURE TO BACK UP ANY DATA YOU MAY HAVE STORED ON THE HARD DRIVE
BEFORE PREPARING OR FORMATTING YOUR DRIVE.  FORMATTING AT ANY
LEVEL IS ALMOST CERTAIN TO RESULT IN PARTIAL OR COMPLETE LOSS OF
DATA.  

If you used DOS to create the partitions, make certain that you
formatted each of the partitions that you created.  Consult your
DOS manual for further information.

                                                           23
Unable to access the second physical drive

If you cannot access your second physical hard drive and your
first drive was NOT formatted with Disk Manager, the following
extra steps are required to enable your system to recognize the
second drive:

Disk Manager's device driver, DMDRVR.BIN, must reside in the root
directory of you boot drive.  This file must be copied from the
Disk Manager diskette by typing, at the A> prompt, "COPY
DMDRVR.BIN C:" and pressing <enter>.  If your boot drive does not
have a CONFIG.SYS file, you may also copy this file from the Disk
Manager diskette.  At the A> prompt, type "COPY CONFIG.SYS C:"
and press <enter>.  If your boot drive already has a CONFIG.SYS
file, you will need to edit this file and add a line which reads
"DEVICE=DMDRVR.BIN."

If you have completed these steps, but your system still does not
recognize the second hard drive, check to make sure you have
removed the terminating resistor from the drive which is
installed on the middle connector on your cable, or the drive
nearest the controller card.

If, after verifying that the installation is correct, you still
cannot access your second drive, you may have a faulty component.
Try swapping the position of your two hard drives, designating
your second hard drive as the first.  If the problem moves to
your first drive, you may have a faulty drive.  If the problem
still occurs on the second drive, you may have a faulty
controller.  Also try another set of cables.  You may want to try
your drive in another system to determine which component is
faulty.  If you need more help isolating the problem, please
contact your dealer. 

                                                           24
Bad sectors reported in CHKDSK

If you run CHKDSK on your hard disc and you notice that it
reports a certain number of bytes in bad sectors, don't worry.
CHKDSK is simply reporting the amount of capacity taken by the
errors which were mapped out during the low-level format.  The
number of bytes in bad sectors may seem high to you, because 8.5
to 15.5 kilobytes are spared out for each error.  This is normal.
For example, 30 kilobytes in bad sectors only equals
approximately 3 hard errors.

                                                           25
Jumper settings for the ST4096 and ST4144R

Utilizing the following additional shorting jumpers will increase
the performance of your ST4096 and ST4144R drives made in 1989.

On the same jumper block as the drive select jumper, add an
additional jumper at position 6.  Directly behind the drive
select jumper block is a 4-pin T-shaped header.  Short the 2 pins
in the middle.  Directly behind the 4-pin T-shaped header, next
to the copper or plastic tab, is a 3-pin jumper header.  Place a
shorting jumper on the 2 pins farthest from the copper or plastic
tab.

                                                           26
APPENDIX - Where else to go for help

The following is a list of telephone numbers for several
controller and host adapter manufacturers.  Please consult your
dealer or these manufacturers for information on their products. 
These telephone numbers are provided for your convenience and
should not be interpreted as an endorsement of these companies or
their
products.

     Adaptec                  408/945-2550
     DTC/Qume                 408/262-7700
     Future Domain            714/253-0400
     NCL                      408/734-1006
     OMTI                     408/954-1633
     Seagate Technology       800/468-3472
     Western Digital          800/832-4778
     Xebec                    800/982-3232
     IBM                      800/999-7778
     Everex                   415/498-1115
     Perstor                  602/894-4601                  
                                                           27
APPENDIX - Dynamic Parameters

You may be asked to enter the following list of disc
characteristics as a string when dynamically configuring your
Seagate hard disc drive using DEBUG.

Run the DEBUG program on your DOS disk and enter G=C800:5.  If
you are asked, "Are you dynamically configuring the drive?"
answer "Y" for yes.  You will then be asked to "Key in disk
characteristics as follows:  number of cylinders, number of
heads, starting reduced write cylinder, write precomp cylinder,
maximum correctable error burst length, and CCB option byte."
These are the strings of parameters you will need for Seagate's
drives:

Drive Model Number  Parameters
------------------  ---------------------
     ST225          615 4 616 300 11 3
     ST225R         667 2 668 668 11 3
     ST238R         615 4 616 616 11 3
     ST250R         667 4 668 668 11 3
     ST251          820 6 821 821 11 3
     ST277R         820 6 821 821 11 3
     ST4053         1024 5 1024 1024 11 3
     ST4096         1024 9 1024 1024 11 3
     ST4144R        1024 9 1024 1024 11 3
     ST124          615 4 616 616 11 3
     ST125          615 4 616 616 11 3
     ST138          615 6 616 616 11 3
     ST138R         615 4 616 616 11 3
     ST151          977 5 978 978 11 3
     ST157R         615 6 616 616 11 3
     ST4026         615 4 616 300 11 6
     ST4038         733 5 734 734 11 3
     ST4038M        733 5 734 300 11 3
     ST4051         977 5 978 978 11 3
     ST212          306 4 307 153 11 3
     ST213          615 2 616 300 11 3
     ST406          306 2 307 128 11 3
     ST412          306 4 307 128 11 3
     ST419          306 6 307 128 11 3
     ST425          306 8 307 128 11 3
     ST506          153 4 128 128 11 0

                                                           28
APPENDIX - Drive types

The following is a list of common drive types for Seagate drives:

ST225/ST4026             2
ST251/ST277R             40 or 44; if your system does not       
                         support these types, use type 3 and Disk 
                         Manager
ST4096/ST4144R           35; if your system does not support this 
                         type, use type 12 and Disk Manager     
ST125/ST138R/ST238R      6
ST4053                   47; if your system does not support this 
                         type, use type 11 and Disk Manager     
ST4038/ST4038M           8 or 20 or 22
ST151/ST4051             17; if your system does not support this 
                         type, use type 11 and Disk Manager     
ST138/ST157R             3
ST212/ST412              1

When using 8-bit controllers and host adapters, such as the
Seagate ST11R and ST11M, or the Seagate ST01 and ST02, the CMOS
or system setup should be set to 0 or no hard drives installed. 
If you already have a hard drive in your system, do not change
it's CMOS setup.

If you are changing from one drive model to another, you should
first run your system setup and delete the hard drive entry.
Save this configuration and then switch off the power.  When you
now boot up, run your system setup and enter the new drive type.

                                                           29
APPENDIX - Disk Manager Walk-Through - Manual Mode

The following are step-by-step instructions for using Disk
Manager, versions 3.2 through 3.5, in the "manual mode."  BE SURE
YOUR DATA IS BACKED UP BEFORE PROCEEDING.  FORMATTING AT THIS
LEVEL WILL DESTROY ALL DATA ON THE DRIVE.

 1.  At the A> prompt, insert your Disk Manager disk, type "DM/M" 
     and press <enter>. Note: If the version of DOS you are using allows
     partitions greater than 32 megabytes, type DM/4/M and press <enter>.
 2.  Choose "C" for the Configuration Menu.
 3.  Choose "N" for Non-standard Parameters.                                      
 4.  Select your disc drive model from the list shown on your
     screen and enter the code number.  Disk Manager will now change your
     system setup (CMOS) to the correct drive type.
     Note: At this point, a message will appear on your screen which says 
     Drive 1 or Drive 2 is "set up as so many cylinders and so many heads." 
     Below that, another message will say "but is actually so many cylinders
     and so many heads."
     The first message is the closest drive type Disk Manager has found
     to the actual hard drive you are using.  The second message is the
     number of cylinders and heads of the drive you have chosen.  If these
     messages are in agreement, you have a "standard drive type", that is,
     your drive has been found to be among the drives listed in your system's
     drive table.  
     If your drive is "Standard", and you are using DOS Version 3.3 or above,
     you may exit the Disk Manager program after completing the initialization
     step.  You may then use FDISK to complete the partitioning and then format
     each partition. If you do not have a "Standard" drive type or if you are
     using a version of DOS which is less than DOS 3.3, you will have to use
     Disk Manager to complete the partitioning and preparation of your drives.
     If your drive is "Standard", and you are using DOS 4.0 or above or any
     version of DOS that allows this, you may put the entire drive on a
     single partition. (512 megabytes maximum.)     

 5.  Do not modify these parameters (displayed in #4 above). 
     Press "N" and <enter>.
 6.  Now press "R" for Return to Main Menu.
 7.  At the Main Menu, select "I" for the Initialization Menu.   
 8.  Select "I" to Initialize.
 9.  Answer "N," No.  The above defect list is not accurate.  (At
     this point, there is no defect list - any defects that are
     shown on the screen are probably incorrect.)
10.  Choose "D" for Defect List Management.
11.  Locate the hard error list printed on top of your drive.
12.  Choose "A," Add to.  Enter each hard error by head and
     cylinder.
13.  When complete, choose "W" to Write the defect map file.  
14.  Choose "R," Return to Initialization Menu.
15.  Choose "I," Initialize.
16.  Answer "Y," Yes, if the above defect list is accurate.  (If
     it is not accurate, make any necessary changes and then 
     return to this step.)
17.  Choose "D," Initialize entire Disk.
18.  When Initialization is complete, choose "R," Return to Main 
     Menu.
19.  At the Main Menu, choose "P" for Partitioning.
20.  Choose "N," create a New partition table.
21.  Choose "N," No.  You do not want the default table.
22.  Choose "A" to Allocate.
23.  Enter "1" or just press <enter>.
24.  Choose "D" for DOS (or just press <enter>).
25.  Enter "0" (make sure you enter the number 0 (zero), not the
     letter O) for the starting cylinder (or press <enter>).  
26.  Enter the number of cylinders.  To determine the correct    
     number of cylinders, divide the total number of cylinders   
     by the total number of megabytes of formatted capacity.     
     This gives you the number of cylinders the drive uses for   
     each megabyte.  Multiply this figure by the number of                                                             30
     megabytes you wish to use in each partition.
27.  Choose "A" if you wish to Allocate another partition.
28.  Enter the partition number (or press <enter> to accept the  
     default).                                                   
29.  Choose "W" for Write-Read (or press <enter>).
30.  Enter the number of cylinders for the partition.  (See step
     26 for further information)
31.  For additional partitions, repeat steps 27 through 30.  
32.  When all partitions have been configured, you will be asked 
     if you wish to "Write the new partition table."  Answer
     "Y", Yes.  Now is also a good time to do a Print Screen to
     print a hard copy of the partition table to save for future
     reference. 
33.  Choose "R," Return to Preparation Menu.
34.  In the Preparation Menu, Choose "P" to Prepare any
     partition. 
35.  Answer "Y," to prepare all DOS, Write-Read, etc.,
     partitions.
36.  Answer "Y," to put the system files on the disc. 
37.  Insert your DOS disk when requested to transfer the DOS
     operating system to your C: drive root directory.
38.  Insert your Disk Manager disk when requested in order to    
     have Disk Manger copy it's DMDRVR.BIN device driver and     
     CONFIG.SYS file into your C: drive root directory.  Without 
     this driver, you will not be able to access any partitions  
     beyond C:.

When Disk Manager finishes preparing your partitions, you may
return to the Main Menu and exit Disk Manager.  Your disk drive
is now completely installed and ready to go to work for you.