                                         "L A N G S O F T"
                                          Language Computer Courses
                                          & GelioSoft.ltd

 We offer a few computer courses of Russian.

 LISTEN, READ, LOOK - MASTER!

 includes  audio  cassette  and  5  lessons  in computer: "Let's get
 acquainted!", "How  much is the kitten?",  "What's in the parcel?",
 "Let's go to the stadium!", "When and Where are we going to meet?"
 These  lessons use  common samples  of Russian  speech. You'll need
 them when  making somebody's acquaintance,  shopping, going to  the
 post office, getting your bearings in a strange city or agreeing to
 meet somewhere.  Besides, this course  may prove to  be a base  for
 further study of  Russian. The course can be  used independently or
 in the classroom.
 It's not  difficult to master the  course. You won't have  to learn
 separate words and sentences. All you need is concentration.

 ABV-2

 The  "ABV-2"  computer  game-like  course  will  help you to master
 Russian characters  and learn the Russian  alphabet. You will learn
 how  Russian letters  are pronounced  and get  acquainted with  the
 Russian  keyboard. You  also will  learn  how  to find  words in  a
 Russian dictionary and be able to recognise international words and
 names when they are written in Russian.

 Type in Russian

 Your  knowledge  of  the  Russian  keyboard  acquired thanks to the
 "Listen, Read, Look-Master!" and  "ABV-2" courses will develop into
 a professional skill if  you turn to the "Type  in Russian" course.
 The exercises of this course will help you to master Russian touch-
 typing.

 DICTIONARY-1

 The "Dictionary-1" course will help  you to acquire basic knowledge
 of  Russian word-  and form-building,  necessary for  work with any
 Russian  dictionary. The  course also  provides you  with a Russian
 dictionary  that includes  7000 lexical  items, which  is much more
 than  the vocabulary  in the  Help  of  the "Listen,  Read, Look  -
 Master!" course includes.

 CASE DETECTIVE

 The "Case  Detective" original linguistic research - game will help
 you to master  the system of Russian cases.  Its detective plot and
 game-like  exercises  will  make  it  easier  to  memorise  all the
 case-forms of Russian  nouns. The main part of  the course consists
 of 6 lessons. Since all exercises  of this course contain 100 - 250
 items to be taught, each lesson  can be used many times. The course
 can  be   used  not  only   as  self-instructor,  but   also  as  a
 supplementary material to any text-book on Russian grammar.
                               * * *
 The  "Listen,  Read,  Look  -  Master!"  and  "ABV-2"  courses were
 prize-winning courses  at the "Borland-Contest'91"  competition for
 the  best software  product. The  "Case Detective"  linguistic game
 were awarded there the First Prize.
 Now special versions of these courses are being prepared for native
 speakers  of German,  French  and  other languages.  An illustrated
 version of the "Listen, Read, Look  - Master!" course is also being
 prepared.
