                         "ABV - 2"

   The "ABV - 2" computer game-like  course will help you
 to  master Russian  characters and  learn the  Russian
 alphabet.  You  will  learn  how  Russian  letters are
 pronounced  and   get  acquainted  with   the  Russian
 keyboard. You also will  learn how to find  words in a
 Russian   dictionary   and   be   able   to  recognize
 international words and names when they are written in
 Russian.
 ( User's Guide, 2 x 360K floppy disks )
------------
               "Type in Russian"

   Your knowledge of the  Russian  keyboard will develop
 into  a professional skill if you turn to the
 "Type in Russian" course. The exercises of this  course
 will  help you  to master  Russian touch-typing.
 ( User's Guide, 1 x 360K floppy disk )
------------
                "Dictionary-1"

   The "Dictionary-1"  course will help  you to acquire
 basic  knowledge of  Russian word-  and form-building,
 necessary  for work  with any  Russian dictionary. The
 course  also provides  you with  a Russian  dictionary
 that includes  7000 lexical items.
 ( User's Guide, 2 x 360K floppy disks )
------------
                   "Case Detective"

   The  "Case Detective"  original linguistic research-
 game  will help  you to  master the  system of Russian
 cases. Its detective plot and game-like exercises will
 make  it  easier  to  memorise  all  the case-forms of
 Russian nouns. The main part of the course consists of
 6 lessons. Since all exercises  of this course contain
 100 - 250 items to be  taught, each lesson can be used
 many times. The  course can be  used not
 only as  self-instructor, but also  as a supplementary
 material to any text-book on Russian grammar.
 ( User's Guide, 4 x 360K floppy disks )
--------------
            
            "Listen, Read, Look - Master!"

      "Listen, Read, Look - Master!" is recommended to
those who begin learning the Russian language. Two weeks
of regular work with a computer and a tape-recorder
will enable you to get basic reading and writing skills
and teach you to understand Russian speech a little.
The course can be regarded as a kind of springboard for
those who have serious intentions to study Russian.
( User's Guide, 1 x 360K floppy disk, 2 audio cassettes )
 -------------------------------

   The  "Listen,  Read,  Look  - Master!"  and  "ABV-2"
 courses    were   prize-winning    courses   at    the
 "Borland-Contest'91" competition for the best software
 product.  The  "Case  Detective"  linguistic game were
 awarded there the First Prize.

   Now special  versions of  these courses  are
 being prepared  for native speakers  of German, French
 and  other languages.  An illustrated  version of  the
 "Listen,  Read, Look  - Master!" course is  also being
 prepared.
