DELPHI Q&A

Q: Had several requests for a language cross-reference guide: Delphi for Paradox, dBASE, C++ users.  Of course, we really should consider this for VB and Powerbuilder users. One issue  about providing this for PDOX or dBASE might be that Borland would be perceived as directing people away from those products into Delphi.  Still, a lot of dBASE and Paradox users are going to be using Delphi at least as a companion product.
A:We may have whitepapers that help folks convert from PB or VB.

Q: Are there other third party VCS/add-on vendor relationships that we can discuss besides PVCS and Earth-Trek?
A:Not yet.   Many coming soon

Q: Is there a way to print the contents of the Browser?
A:Not in the first release.

Q: Is there a way to use the .DSK file as a workspace, i.e. save the current desktop into a named .DSK file that could be used later?  Are the .DSK files specific to the directory from which the project is loaded allowing for a different workspace to come depending on which project I load?  The gist here is that the developers would like something equivalent to the old Quattro Pro Workspace where the entire desktop layout is saved off as a named file that can be reopened after other work has occurred within Delphi.
A:Yes.  Set the Options Preferences dialog to save the desktop.  When you load a project you'll get the desktop.

Q: How do you define the main form in a multi-form app.
A:If you look at the Options Project dialog you can set which is the "main" form and which are created automatically.  It in turn makes the changes to the project DPR file, viewable from the View Project Manager right click project source menu. I think that may also be on the View Project Source menu.

Q: In a Client server environment, one customer has a couple of Oracle platforms.  This is really a BDE question.   Will the BDE support two phase commit so he can update cross platform databases?  What is the work-around?
A:BDE will not support two phase commit from client to server.  Work-around, if you define a view on the server which spans multilple databases and let the server manage the two-phase commit.

Q: How far does containership go?  Does inheritance include all items contained, say, in a panel?
A:Are you comparing it to PDW's containership.  If so, no, Delphi will not inherit objects that are VISUALLY contained in another object.  You'd have to "build" the object as a combination of the various objects that you could then inherit.  I'm not even sure cut and paste would work the same as PDW but then I haven't tried it.

Q: Followup to above:  The Panel object (among others) gives the appearance of containing any visual objects placed on top of it.  If I want to re-use the panel just the way I have created it for a particular form, I assume that I could create a component that would be a special version of a Tpanel, complete with all of the objects that I had placed on the original.  Any improvements or changes to the underlying Tpanel object would automatically bubble up to my custom object when I recompile.
A:You could do this, but you have to do it in code and its not trivial.  If you want to use a template app or create a customized panel-mit-speedbuttons object that might do what you want.

Q: How about arrays of objects?
A:You can create arrays of objects, sure.

Q: Will there be an API or file format published for IDAPI.CFG?  Developers want to insulate their users from having to use IDAPICFG but would like to programmatically set up various parameters.
A:You will be able to programmatically create aliases.

Q: Will there be Appendix information in the Help system such as error messages?
A:Yeah

Q: Resources - Will we ever be able to convert all resources (not just menus) over to Delphi?
A:you can use resources without conversion using the $R directive to display dialogs etc.

Q: I understand the your logic on multi-platform, however.......
A:The priority is to focus on Windows, NT, Win95.  We can always add more platform support after these are done.

Q: Native graph components?. ...are graphing components being provided by third party vendors to coincide with the official release of Delphi?
A:We are working with a number of third party component vendors and all graphing VBXs will work with Delphi. FT4 and FT5 include a sample charting VBX, though you have to install it using the Options Install component VBX menu...

Q: Will there be any support for Transaction Monitoring(OLTP) software like Encena, Tuxedo, Top Edge?(SQL windows and PB do!)."
A:We are working with several of these folks.  For example, Novell is building components that show how to use their TP monitor from Delphi.

Q: Customers were curious as to how long it took to develop the Hotline App.  Do we know?  Can we estimate without the time required to clean up the app due to FT4 to FT5 migrations?
A: A couple of days development time.  Also a couple of days to convert from FT4 to FT5.

Q: I also had a problem with the cafree example giving me a GPF?  Have we resolved this in the example code the customers will get?   What is the fix?
A:There is a note in the readme not to use caFree in the OnClose event from a form and then call Close fom a button on that form.  Close from a menu works (it also works from a timer by my own experimentation), but not safe from a button.

Also, from Colm......Re your Cafree GPF problem, I also had the same problem and spoke with Delphi Q & A regarding it. They are checking the logic and it seems there are like 9-12 nested if loops at that particular point in Delphi so it is definitely a problem right now which they will fix soon.
 
This was a problem as it concerns memory management. The QA guy was a little confusing but he did say that they 3 options for releasing a dynamic form are

CaFree = GPF
Cahide = Keep resource 
CaNone = Same as Cafree without the GPF.

The funny thing about Canone is it does release all the resources associated with a form except for 12 bytes (Memory Leak) and does not give you a GPF whilst Cafree gives you a GPF and then releases the form with the 12 byte problem as well.

Q: Will there be a network install?
A:we're looking into it (See Patino/Kresco/Murphy's top ten......<G>.]

Q: Will the DBD have the showSQL option from the QBE?
A:not sure

Q: Will there be a Pascal 8.0 for Dos?
A:not announced.  if we do, it will be based on the 32 bit compiler which will come out first in Delphi for Win 95 and NT

Q: What are the 24-36 months plans for Delphi?
A:ship version for Win 3.1, then Windows 95/NT, then add more features to support application partitioning.  We're not ready to announce a 3 year plan, but we'll try to get more info out in the coming months.

Q: Is the *.DFM file format described in the Open Tools API?
A:it's the stream format of the objects, so you can check it out if you want.  if you want to see the text representation, open the DFM file into the editor and it'll convert it into text.
Q: Object Inspector : clicking on the left side ( property names) you should then be able to incrementally search for a property.
A:this is in, but the UI may not be obvious

Q: Can the overhead of the *.exe be put into a *.dll ( all forms have ~160K of overhead) (all database forms have ~200K more of overhead)
A:not in version 1.0

Q: GotoKey - Does this raise an exception if a record is not found?  It did not seem to.
A:not sure on this.  probably there's some way to check whether it works.  Try the help for now.

Q: Positioning paper - Lots of big clients re interested in making a case to standardize on Delphi -- some need white paper comparing Delphi vs. VC++ vs. VB.
A:We are about 30 days away from some positioning papers being completed.  In the meantime, feel free to use the Delphi Preview Guide and the Windows Sources comparison of Delphi/VB.  All tech transfer attendees should have the Preview Guide.  FYI, in the SF TT a guy told us an app done in VC that is not yet complete after 4 weeks took him 4 days to complete in Delphi after getting it for the first time in session 2!

Q: Interbase - Is it on the FT5 for these folks?  Will they get it?
A:It is not on the CD but will be sent to these folks some time in the next few weeks.

Q: Converters - TP7 and Paradox object converters to Delphi.
A:Just recompile TP7.  I don't know of any ObjectWindows to Delphi UI converters planned though.  Nothing to convert Paradox UI objects (or ObjPAL for that matter) to Delphi planned that I know of.

Q: Hints - Bubble help is not available on anything but panels and speedbars?
A:You can get flyby help on anything which is on a panel

Q: Help - Is there a help compiler in Delphi's future?
A:Forehelp as an upsell for the short term.  (Hey Zack, if we really do end up charging $1995 for Enterprise perhaps we should bundle)  There is the help context properties in the objects as you know.  As for a Delphi Help Compiler...?

Q: SQL - Is a sql query result set RO?  An edit and a post can be done with no exception raised, but the edits do not take place.
A:I've found you can't really count on the navigator object to edit and post properly on a query.  Hopefully, that is just a beta thing.  Hotline does edit and post properly when looking up a customer after taking a call so you might want to look at the code that the developer put in there for doing that.  It is not read only, however.  We are working on updatable queries
Q: Mangling - Does Delphi require name mangling to be turned off in DLLs?
A:No

Q: NT - User said tutorial did not run on NT.  Does it in FT5?
A:Sounds like a bug

Q: Protection - How does Delphi handle multi-user access?  Do we require a RW directory for a NET file?  This is unacceptable to some developers who must have data stored in directories that are read-only.  This has been a problem in the past for them.  I explained that if the net and working directories are kept separate, and the net file is in a common rw directory, that there should not be a problem.
A:For .db files it handles it like Paradox, for .dbf like dBASE and for SQL with optimistic locking (by default unless you explicitly lock things via SQL).  Remember, it is using the BDE for all that stuff so it will be consistent with our database apps.

Q: Creating a home page on the world wide web(WWW) would get more information to a lot of people. 
A:In the works for first quarter and being headed up by John Seamster.

Q: While creating projects, if an invalid directory is entered it creates it.  It should ask if you want to create the directory first.
A:that proved to be pretty annoying in previous betas and was changed based on feedback

Q: How do you pass a parameter to ReportSmith? What do you put into the Initial Values property?
A:this is pretty tricky using the RS syntax.  But it works as described in RS.  We'll try to have some examples.  Note from Dave: the Conn Partner who helped out in the SF TT did this and it works pretty easily.  Not sure if it is actually reflected in the TT materials.  Basically, once you define the variables for the report you just enter them into the header of the report.  The initial values property is simply  a list of strings that match your report variables.  I can't remember exactly how he passed the variables.  Lance, Kevin, or Hugh, do you recall?

Q: Does Delphi support callbacks?  The help systems mentions that the Windows API message is not supported, but is there an instruction in Delphi itself?
A:no problem since it's compiled code.  Charlie, any examples here?

Q: Is it just a beta bug or is it intended to have the report object bring up the runtime viewer and print together?  Will there be a property to view,print, or both?
A:There is a report property that is not on the Object Inspector called Preview.  So instead of report1.run you would put in report1.preview.  This is not documented well anywhere.

Q: Will the multihelp utilties be included with delphi so the developer can create multihelp?
A:yes

Q: Can you add *.tok files to the editor for user defined color context editing ( like in BC++)?
A:no.  next version maybe

Q: Can we put Hotline on BORABETA for TT attendees?
A:I don't see why not.  See below regarding getting a cleaned up one from Zack.  As soon as we do I will get the files to Mike Fitz-Enz.

Q: Dan Ehrmann claimed to the TT attendees that we've already taken Delphi up to Microsoft (corporate, in Washington) to show them Delphi.  Is this true?  If so, why?  The attendees found this statement quite puzzling if true on our behalf.
A:This is the problem with taking stuff out of context.  Our comment to the seminar preview folks was that we had been doing a lot of PR and showing Delphi publically on a limited scale, for example to user groups in NY, Boston, LA, DC and even Seattle to get the message out that Delphi is a c/s development tool. Then we even said we had shown it to the Win 95 systems people at MS, namely Brad Silverberg and he said he thought it was more of a PB competitor than a VB competitor.   It wasn't anything more bizarre or even more interesting than that.  

Q: How can 1-M-M or 1-M-1 forms be created?
A:Drop down data sources to the forms and connect up setting the master source, master detail properties as appropriate.  No different from 1-M

Q: Does Delphi support HLLAPI, if so how?
A:Through third party libraries, controls, VBXs from third party vendors. Scott, DavidI, any idea on where we are on this?  

Q: Does Delphi support 3270 emulation, if so how?
A:same as above.  

Q: When can a user choose Skip on the Interbase "GDS..." and "TCP/IP" prompts on install and still operate against IB (ie. if installing IB later or if has installed already)?
A:As long as they are not using TCP/IP for their transport.  So, if they are using IPX/SPX to connect to NLM, NETBeui to connect to NT, or the DLL to connect to Local IB they can skip those.

Q: Will we do it, or allow others to, write new IDAPI drivers (ie. IDAPI to Access or IDAPI to Excel)?
A:There was a plan at one time to write an API for that but it has not come to fruition.  I doubt that we will do this unless someone wants to fund it.
Q: Is there, or will there be any support for "fuzzy searches" such as the LOCATE with wildcards in Paradox, or the Opal LOCATEPATTERN? (on non-indexed fields).
A:If that functionality is built into the extended SQL of a backend server you can certainly pass it thru.

Q: When doing FILE SAVE AS PROJECT...it would be handy if Delphi could CREATE DIRECTORY to avoid leaving the evironment.
A:This will be added after FT5.

Q:  Months ago we were told that Pascal 7.0 applications should work here.  Is this still the case?  Is there a conflict between the Delphi VCL and Pascal 7.0 OWL?
A:Yes, you can compile all existing BP7 TPW windows code in Delphi.   However, you don't want to have OWL UI code co-exist with Delphi UI code.  If you have designed your apps where backend processing computation is done in separate units, it's not a problem. Just build the new UI (using the UI builder) and call the units.  This was also recently written up in this week's infoworld.

Q:  Will it work with other version control software besides PVCS?  One customer is using a product from Legent.
A:Yes, we have an Open Tools API (look for details in FT5) so that third party vendors can add their own tightly integrated tools, whether its version control, CASE tools etc.   I will check with DR to see if they are working with Legent.

Q:  Will there be a published API for Delphi itself so other developers can build third party tools that integrate into Delphi?
A:Yes, the Open Tools API is being published.  Heck, I think it's even covered in the day three materials. 

Q:  Where is the document that describes exactly what each DLL in IDAPI does?  This way  a developer can just distribute the minimum number of files.
A: More info to come.....but for now: 

File descriptions for IDAPI 1.3 release: 11 18 94

IDAPI01.DLL   	Borland Database Engine API DLL 
IDBAT01.DLL   	Borland Database Engine Batch Utilities DLL 
IDQRY01.DLL   	Borland Database Engine Query DLL 
IDASCI01.DLL  	Borland Database Engine ASCII Driver DLL 
IDPDX01.DLL   	Borland Database Engine Paradox Driver DLL 
IDDBAS01.DLL  	Borland Database Engine dBASE Driver DLL 
IDR10009.DLL  	Borland Database Engine Resources DLL 
ILD01.DLL     	Language Driver DLL
IDODBC01.DLL  	Borland Database Engine ODBC Socket DLL 
ODBC.NEW     	 Microsoft ODBC Driver Manager DLL, version 2.0 
ODBCINST.NEW  	Microsoft ODBC Driver installation DLL, version 2.0

TUTILITY.DLL  	Borland Database Engine Tutility DLL

IDAPICFG.EXE  	Borland Database Engine Configuration Utility 
IDAPICFG.HLP  	Borland Database Engine Configuration Utility Help 
IDAPI.CNF     	Borland Database Engine Configuration File 

 File descriptions for SQL Links 2.1 (IDAPI 1.3) release: 11 18 94

Common files installed for any combination of drivers: 
BLROM800.LD - Roman language driver using binary collation sequence 
DBASESQL.TXT - Readme tips for dBASE 5.0 for Windows Users 
PDOXSQL.TXT - Readme tips for Paradox 5.0 for Windows Users 
READLINK.TXT - Borland SQL Links Readme

InterBase: 
SQLD_IB.DLL - Borland SQL Link InterBase Driver  
SQLD_IB.HLP - Borland SQL Link InterBase Driver Help 
SQL_IB.CNF - BDE Configuration File for InterBase Driver 
CONNECT.EXE - InterBase Windows connect utility 
CONNECT.HLP - InterBase Windows connect utility help file 
GDS.DLL - InterBase OSRI API  DLL 
REMOTE.DLL - InterBase Networking interface DLL 
INTERBAS.MSG - InterBase error message file

JSB TCP IP VSL for Windows - InterBase's Windows Socket Interface:

MVWASYNC.EXE - VSL Asyncronus communication module 
VSL.INI - TCP IP transport Initialization File 
WINSOCK.DLL - Windows Socket DLL 
MSOCKLIB.DLL - Maps Windows socket calls to VSL driver

The list below contains all of the supported VSL drivers:

M3OPEN.EXE - 3Com  3+Open TCP 
M3OPEN.DLL - 3Com 3+Open  TCP Version 2.0 
MBW.EXE - Beame & Whiteside TCP IP 
MFTP.EXE - FTP PC TCP 
MHPARPA.DLL - HP ARPA Service for DOS 
MNETONE.EXE - Ungermann-Bass Net One 
MNOVLWP.DLL - Novell LAN WorkPlace for DOS 
MPATHWAY.DLL - Wollongong Pathway Access for DOS 
MPCNFS.EXE - Sun PC NFS  
MPCNFS2.EXE - Sun PC NFS v3.5 
MPCNFS4.DLL - Sun PC NFS v4.0 
MWINTCP.EXE - Wollongong WIN TCP\IP for DOS

Informix: 
SQLD_INF.DLL - Borland SQL Link Informix Driver 
SQLD_INF.HLP - Borland SQL Link Informix Driver Help 
SQL_INF.CNF - BDE Configuration File for Informix Driver 
LDLLSQLW.DLL - Informix client-side DLL 
ISAM.IEM - Informix error message file 
OS.IEM - Informix error message file 
RDS.IEM - Informix error message file 
SECURITY.IEM - Informix error message file 
SQL.IEM - Informix error message file 
ZRDSTERM.IEM - Informix error message file

Oracle: 
SQLD_ORA.DLL - Borland SQL Link Oracle Driver  
SQLD_ORA.HLP - Borland SQL Link Oracle Driver Help 
SQL_ORA.CNF - BDE Configuration File for Oracle Driver 
ORA6WIN.DLL - Oracle Version 6.x client-side DLL (DOS)
ORA7WIN.DLL - Oracle Version 7.x client-side DLL (WINDOWS)
SQL13WIN.DLL - Oracle client-side DLL 
SQLWIN.DLL - Oracle client-side DLL 
COREWIN.DLL - Oracle client-side DLL 
ORAWE850.LD - Language driver based on DOS code page 850

Sybase: 
SQLD_SS.DLL - Borland SQL Link Sybase Driver 
SQLD_SS.HLP - Borland SQL Link Sybase Driver Help 
SQL_SS.CNF - BDE Configuration File for Sybase Driver 
W3DBLIB.DLL - Sybase Microsoft SQL Server client-side DLL 
DBNMP3.DLL - Sybase Microsoft SQL Server client-side DLL for Named Pipes 
SYDC437.LD - Language driver based on DOS code page 850 
SYDC850.LD - Language driver based on DOS code page 437 

Q:  Will there be an Install Expert for the application that the developer made?  Or is there a recommended install tool that they should buy?
A:We are working with several third party companies to make delphi compatible installation utilities.  Scott, any update here?

Q:  Will the final version of the DFM file be completely textual? In the S.E. Build the CONVERT.EXE program was not included.
A:For efficiency, DFM files are stored in binary.  However, they can be converted into text format at any time.  In FT4, that was done using the CONVERT.EXE utility.  In FT5, CONVERT.EXE is no longer necessary since you can load a DFM file into the editor (if it's not already open) and automatically you will see the text view.  You can make changes in the editor, save it and then load in the corresponding unit file and see the changes reflected.  Cool eh?

Q:  Are there any conflicts with the Windows API?  If a developer makes a call to the Windows API that affects a form, will it be detected by Delphi?  Will there be a document to list the conflicts?
A:I'm not clear what you mean.  There's no restrictions on what API functions you can call.  Keep in mind that with our hardware exception handling support we can trap many kinds of GPFaults in the environment including misuse and abuse of the Windows API, pointer problems etc.  (Ian, we should call this "crash protection"!)

Q:  Can we get a list of the books that will be comming out soon? Title,Author,Publisher.
A:There are currently two dozen books planned.  Nan distributed a list of these at Comdex in the Delphi info kit.  Nan, can you send an updated list to Dave Murphy?

Q:  Will Delphi do OLE automation?
A:There are no objects that simplify this, but you can call the Windows API to do it.  Because we use the same OLE technology in BC4.5, Paradox, Wordperfect etc, we will add this in future versions, as well as OCX support.

Q: What are the limits of the Visual Query Builder?
A:It won't parse back changes to the query and update the visuals.  However, we will try to make it slightly better before it ships.  Keep in mind this was built by a third party (Coromandel, in NY) and seamlessly integrated into the Delphi environment.  

Q:  Does the compiler do dead code elimination?
A:Delphi has all of the optimizations added in BP7 including redundant point load elimination, 386 long int instructions, optimized bitsets, faster string file operations.  I'm not sure in which cases it will do dead code elimination.  Gary?

Q:  Can Delphi intercept Windows Messages?
A:Yeah, you can override the windows message loop if you want, create your own messages, your own message handlers, do inline assembler all the low-level stuff in case you need to.

Q:  Will there be an uninstall?
A:No.   We're more confident than that.  :-)

Q: Can a customer use a previous version of PVCS?  If so, what versions are supported and how can they hook-up to that one instead of the one that will be coming with the Enterprise edition?
A:The customer must have PVCS 5.1 or later, since that's when they set their API to allow us this level of control.  Note that they must own version 5.1 to use the team development in the entreprise edition. We do not include PVCS.  They should contact InterSolv for upgrade info.

The Enterprise version of Delphi includes support for Team Development including integrated check-in, check-out, version management etc.  This requires that the customer have PVCS 5.1 in order to use it.  PVCS is by far the most popular version control system in use and the one that customers kept asking about.  And in most cases, if they want version control it's because they're using PVCS already.  Because of our Open Tools API, other version control vendors can integrate their tools also.

Q: Can a developer in the TT distribute an .EXE using the FT, or is that prohibited under NDA?
A:This is prohibited.  But if we can get a testimonial out of them, we can bend the rules.  Please work one on one with the customer to see what kind of app it is, how widely they want to deploy it, etc.  

Normally, folks can't deploy applications during beta.  However, I'm happy to bend the rules on a case by case basis if it's going to ensure the customer's success and help us get testimonials.  And of course, it depends on the type of app they're deploying and how broadly.  It would be fine for someone to test an app on a limited basis internally.  If it's widespread commercial sale, we have to be careful.  Note that the betas of delphi have *not* been certified to be compatible with shipping dBase and Paradox.  They will of course be totally certified compatible when we ship the final version.

Q: Executable size of 180ishK for minimal programs was of some concern.  Can we be a bit more efficient with including the complete object tree in every application executable?
A:Keep in mind there's no runtime intepreter DLL.  As you add capabilities, apps will stay in relatively small growth.  [Note: keep in mind that each app also includes the ability to call much of the RTL programmatically]

Q: can registrants show product?  To whom?
A:Of course, a key aspect of the tech transfer is that we want folks to become evangilists in their organization and get acceptance throughout the organization.  To that end, I think it would be fine, and in fact, encouraged to have these pioneers discuss Delphi with their colleagues. I think a great way to disseminate that information would be to encourage tech transfer attendees to distribute copies of the reprint articles from Windows Tech Journal, InfoWorld, PC Mag and Windows Sources (reprints on order).  In addition, the Delphi Preview Guide is also useful as a more detailed (35 page) overview of the products, features and technical "under the hood" discussions.   Marcie, feel free to send out those materials to SEs as necessary.

Q: Is there a way to surface the import data utilities of the BDE easily?
A:Not sure what you mean.  There is a batch move object in the FT5 version that lets you copy stuff down from the server to, say, local tables.

Q: Will IB run on NYNEX UNIX?
A:Is this the same as AT&T's UNIX?  If so, yes.

Q: Someone read about a VB -> Delphi conversion tool under development by a Mass. 3rd party in InfoWorld.  Is there clarification on this?  Did we plan this?  More info?
A:The company is Earth Trek and we are working closely with them to get them PR etc.  They have planned and announced a VB to Delphi converter and are working on a PowerBuilder converter.  We expect to have more such partnerships and tools in the coming months.  Dave Herman from Earth Trek is updating the tool to make it work with FT5.

Q: Is there a way to globally change the default font for all controls?
A:You can set the Font property on the form and all the controls will pick up that change automatically if the ParentFont property of the particular control is True (which is the default.)  When you set the font to a particular control, it will also set the ParentFont property to be False so that it no longer gets the form's changes automatically.   The color, Ctl3D and ParentColor properties work in the same way.  In addition, if you put down a panel the properties can be set for those things inside a panel.   

In addition, you can create template applications or forms used by the Gallery so that you can always start from an application style (including fonts etc) that you like.

Q: Will "ForHelp" be bundled with Delphi?
A:No. This will be available separately.  But it can be added to the Tools menu.

Q: What graphic types does the bitmap editor support?
A:BMP, ICO, CUR, RES, DCR extensions are listed under the editor as valid types to open.  DCR is the Delphi resource format for displaying icons.  

Q: Can Delphi link in other code (C, etc.)?  -Pascal?  C objs?  Can other compilers link in Delphi code?
A:You can call and create DLLS to share code with C, C++ or other languages.  This way Delphi forms and functions are callable from dBase, Paradox, VB, PowerBuilder, C++ etc.    This is described in the component writer's guide.

Q: Is there any transaction support in delphi.  There is no reference to it.  No help support for "Transaction","Commit","Rollback"
A: Not explicitly in an object, at this time anyway.  Obviously, if that is supported by the server it is supported by Delphi.


Q: What do we enter for the IndexName property on a multi-table link if we don't have access to the indexes (ie. Sybase)?

Q: Does the Visual Query Builder generate server specific SQL, or just ANSI ??, etc.?

Q: What capabilities do we have in breaking out of running queries, and which, if any, are server specific and which are Delphi or BDE features?

Q: Is there or will there be a color property for the current or specified rows on DBGrids (current and conditional record highlighting)?

Q: (From a Smalltalk/OOP guy) Was there any consideration of or research done with Model View Controlling (separating app design from business design)?

Q: What auto-refresh capabilities do we have across IDAPI DB platforms (a-la Paradox type refreshing)?

Q: Will a DBGrid ever obey Paradox table val checks and pictures?

Q: SOM/DSOM support coming?

Q: (IDAPI?) How can we get the path to stick for ODBC databases?

Q: Will we ever release the scripting lang for Tutor development?

Q: Can we store bookmarks for later use (ie. on app startup the next day)?

Q: Is there a way or a plan to support real-time syntax checking (ie. VB, when you move off the current line in code)?

Q: Can we or will we be able to extend/change all menus, not just Tools?

Q: Will the requirement for Multihlp.DLL to be in the Win\Sys directory be fixed soon?

Q: Bug? Resizing list boxes during one of the Tutors gets it lost.

Q: When will the AutoRedrawproperty for a form be surfaced to allow copying of the form canvas to the printer canvas?  Found on page 322 of the Users Guide.

Q: Steven, not that FT5 includes RS 2.5, can we get them the beta doc from FT5.  The RS 2.5 that did not come with FT4?

Q: The Remove Method example is missing from docs and on-line help.  Is it possible to get an example for the attendees.

Q: The example to make calls directly to the BDE on page 90 of the Building Database App doc using the Stmthandle property does not work (according to an attendee).  It doesn't recognize the function.  Is this not supported in FT4 or is the example incorrect?

Q: Can a Form be designed visually, inheriting from a class other than TFORM?  Can it be inherited from TMYNEWFORM?

Q: Can the developer control any grid (TDBGRID,TSTRINGGRID,TDRAWGRID) on a cell by cell level? font,color,size,value...

Q: Data Pump - how is it, where is it, and what do we know about it?  Gary Wilkerson (head of national systems for Kaiser Permanente) wants someone to contact him.

Q: When connecting to a database server with delphi to InterBase for example how are we handling connections?  Is it possible for Delphi to burn up a number of connections for a single application?  How are connections for multiple applications but a single user?  Is IB connectivity via User Name?  WorkStation Address?  I guess a general discussion of this would be helpful.

Q: VB takes a lot of system & GDI resources.  What about Delphi, how good is it with system & GDI resources?

Q: What pascal book do we recommend?

Q: What increment are we using for screen measurements?  Pixels?  What about twips?

Q: Can you add new events to a control?  Easily?  How?

Q: Can you turn containership on or off for a group or panel control?

Q: What is the size of string variable in memory?

Q: (From Compaq Computer developers) Will there be a component palette tool surfaced that will allow end users of Delphi applications to create tables at runtime?

Q: (From Compaq Computer developers) Will we provide shared support for resource files (.RC) between Borland C++ and Dephi projects.  They want to be able to share and migrate resources for use in multiple applications?

Q: Can we provide a Query by params that supports names instead of numbers for subscript or index references? (i.e. ParamsByName like the FieldByName function)

Q: (From American Airlines) When a Tdataset.)

Q: Is there a Hotkey to get to the Object Inspector?
Q: Can you [update| Insert | Append] through a browse object that represents a join between tables?

Q: Is there an easy way to import from ascii?  Will the Batch move accept tab or comma delimited tables?  Not much docs on how this works.  A quick clarification would help.  Could this be handled by another control?

 you've already issued a POST record, on the OnUpdateDate event can we cancel the POST? (same issue as BeforePost event on
==========================================
WISH LIST ITEMS

W: Need to be able to specify the IDAPI.CFG file either on the command line or in the finished application.

W: Interface with TP monitors like Tuxedo.
A:we're working on this 

W: Datawindow

W: Multirecord Object

W: OCX support
A:for the 32 bit release

W: Native OS/2 version

W: Needs a way to explicitly bring up the gallery. Normally the gallery is not necessary, but occasionally a predefined form is useful.  Maybe add a menu option for "New Form from Gallery" ( but shorter) 
A:it's a preference setting in Options menu

W: In the Help system, add a heirarchical diagram of all the classes ( like OWL ) to view all the VCL.

W: Get rid of the *.dfm files and build the information into the constructor of the class that it is designing.  ( opinion:  it seems odd that the only place that two-way tools work is with a file that is not Object-Pascal )
A:a bit late for this kind of change :-<

W: Put all properties on one page in Help (multiple columns so all show on screen).

W: Make the Visual Query Builder a two-way tool (updates & is updated by, SQL string).

W: A Duplicate menu instruction for objects (instead of Copy/Paste; like Paradox's Edit/Duplicate menu choice on forms).

W: Modal SpeedBars in Delphi environment (like Paradox) - one for editor, one for forms, etc.  Possible with Open Tools API?  Or perhaps instead of greying out the run button turn it into program reset.

W: Visual Object connector (similar to Paradox DataModels, similar to Business Objects) where developer draws lines between objects (ie. Table, DataSource and Grid).

W: Better error messages (ie.  If used wrong DataSource name in Grid property, display DataSource and name, not generic message.

W: Multi-column list box items (ie.  A secondary items property).

W: Better way of messaging "Reference no longer exists, do you want to delete it..." (or something like that) if you delete the procedure, etc manually.  A user had to press Yes at compile time 77 times to continue.  Maybe a "delete all" choice.

W: An object tree like PDW.

W: Suite-specific install or wrappers/components like ReportSmith's TReport (ie. TWord or TExcel or T123 components for application integration; or more realistic, a TSpellChecker from Word or WP).

W: An automatic Save/SaveAs dialog before compile.

W: Ability to click on entire edit portion of Object Inspector's object drop-down, not just arrow.

W: Do spacing (Align/Spacing) of objects on form by position or specifying the space apart, not just space between first and last selected objects.

W: An Incremental Locate component (ie. on a grid, user types in "A", then "Ag", then "Agr" and the cursor follows the incremental finds).

W:  Local sorting on the datagrid.

W:  Tear off menus

W:  Third Party listing on the CD-ROM.  All known books, third party tools, training companies...

W:  A comment property for every class for documentation capabilities.

W:  More documentation tools.
W:  Right mouse button option on a procedure, function or class name to jump to the definition.

W: Table Grid should have a searching option.

W: Table Grid Header should have control of changing the font of each field name

W: Completely mouse-less development.  Many developers find the mouse to be unproductive.
A:In fact, there is a ton o stuff you can do without the mouse.  Use the View Component List menu to add stuff to the form, ctrl-arrow keys to move components in the form, hot keys for the editor etc.  

W: IDAPI driver for DB2 (DDCS/2 or MDI).  Feedback from a couple of the attendees is that the ODBC DB/2 connection is way too sloW:  They see a direct connection giving us a major advantage.
A:This is our next IDAPI connection but it is still not far enough along to commit a date.

W: Data model.
A:we will use third party tools here.  Scott, any update here on CASE tools or infomodeler from Asymetrix?

W: Alt-Z ala Pdox zoom (locate) keystroke combination in a table grid.

W: Sequential search in a table grid (type S then M then I then T then H).
A: can be done in code of course....

W: Reduce the amount of statements Delphi requires in the PATH statement (like RS, etc.).

W: A reference regarding the clauses listed in the Uses section.  For example:

uses
  SysUtils, WinTypes, WinProcs, Messages, Classes, Graphics, Controls,  Forms, Dialogs;

They would like to know what's in SysUtils, WinTypes, etc.  So they inquiring about a reference guide for this.  

W: WYSIWYG form view/print capability.
A:planned in a future release

W: InterBase compression of data

W: Listbox which sorts by case.

W: Multiple selection of items in the outline component.

W: Re the database functions.  The GoToKey function requires an exact match across all fields in a composite index.  This is great, but I would fully  expect to see something akin to the Paradox Engine function PXSrchKey, which takes a parameter indicating the type of search seek: ClosestRecord,  SearchFirst and SearchNext being the choices.  Giving us just an exact search, and requiring all fields to match the index entry seems like a conscious  omission.  As such, I'm horrified.  It really complicates things, which (oversimplifying)  then become easier to do in today's Borland Pascal or C C++ with  the Paradox Engine!  I'd hate to write a tiny DLL just to put a wrapper on some BDE function just to get this behavior!  On the positive side, I'm impressed  with parameterized SQL queries, with the general speed of the local engine's operation, etc.  Ya just gotta give us what's already present in the engine, or  you'll never hear the end of it.  Trust me.

W: the data grid's thumb-button in the scroll bars behavior is counter-intuitive and confusing.  It reminds me of ObjectVision, which is where I  first saw this behavior.  If you page down or grab the thumb-button, and move it to a location on the scroll bar, it should STAY there!  Delphi's grid  currently puts the button either at top, bottom or middle, regardless of the relative location of the group of records in the grid.  I have not seen this  behavior in any other product.  Again, any Windows user sliding that button will do a double take to see it snap back to the middle of the scroll bar.   PLEASE fix! 

6


