Every successful person has had failures, but repeated failure is no
 guarantee of eventual success.
Good judgement comes from experience; and experience, well, that comes from
 bad judgement.
Murphy's Law:  Trial and Error is still faster than reading the manual!
BackUp Not Found  (A)bort (R)etry (P)anic ...
My reality check just bounced!
Illiterate?   Write for information.
Between two evil's?  Pick the one you haven't tried...
Window's isn't a virus...a virus does something!
You wouldn't be worried about what people think of you if you knew how
 seldom they actually do.
Were you a Producer or a Consumer today?
If A = B and B = C, then A = C, except where void or prohibited by law.
Real knowledge is to know the extent of ones ignorance.
There are two kinds of people: those who do the work and those who take
 the credit.  Try to be in the first group - there is lest competition there.
 (Indira Gandhi)
We are all faced with a series of great opportunities brilliantly disguised
 as impossible situations.
"Hit me!", said the masochist.   "No!", said the sadist.
A good plan today is better than a perfect plan tomorrow.  --Patton
A lack of leadership is no substitute for inaction.
A nuclear war can ruin your whole day.
A page of history is worth a volume of logic.
A second class effort is a first class mistake.
Age and treachery will always overcome youth and skill.
All obstacles not foreseen will be tripped over.
All people smile in the same language.
Any IC protected by a fast acting fuse will protect the fuse by blowing first.
Any given program:  Once running, is obsolete.
Any given program:  Will expand to fill all available resources.
Any landing you can walk away from is a good one.
Any simple idea will be worded in the most complicated way.
Any small object that is accidentally dropped will hide under a larger object.
Any smoothly functioning technology is indistinguishable from a "rigged" demo.
As of next week, passwords will be entered in Morse code.
By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail.
Deposit 25 cents at the tone.
Even the smallest candle burns brighter in the dark.
Kindness is like a boomerang:  it always comes back.
Me thinks the man protests too much. -- Shakespeare
Minds are like parachutes.  They only function when fully open.||
Passwords are implemented as a result of insecurity.
Patience comes to those who wait
Prior Planning Prevents Poor Performance.
Remember, even if you win the rat race - you're still a rat.
Rumor is a pipe blown by surmises, jealousies, conjectures.
  -- William Shakespeare
Signs of crime: screaming or cries for help.
  -- from the Brown Security Crime Prevention Pamphlet
Silence cannot be misquoted.
Simplicity does not precede complexity, but follows it.
Success is a journey, not a destination.
Success means getting up just one more time than you've fallen down.
This screen intentionally left blank.
Those of you who think you know everything are annoying those of us who do.
To communicate is the beginning of understanding.  --AT&T
To do nothing is in every man's power.
Waiter: "Tea or coffee, gentlemen?"
 1st customer: "I'll have tea."
 2nd customer: "Me, too -- and be sure the glass is clean!"
 (Waiter exits, returns)
 Waiter: "Two teas.  Which one asked for the clean glass?"
What excuses stand in your way?  How can you eliminate them?
  --Roger von Oech
You can't depend on the man who made the mess to clean it up.
  -- Richard Nixon [1952]
