FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE ----


May 18, 1995 -- Monterey, CA --  Today, Smileyware Systems, Incorporated announced the release of their newest venture into Delphi component building, the TSmiley Component.  "We feel that this component will really revolutionize the way people think and feel about Delphi programming and their computers in general," said Nick Hodges, Chief Design Engineer for TSmiley.  "We worked long and hard here at Smileyware to meet our customer needs and to produce a product that does what it set out to do.  We feel it will fill a large hole in the Delphi environment."

TSmiley is a native Delphi component that can be easily incorporated into any Delphi project.  "It's utility to developers is unmeasured," said Hodges.   "We think TSmiley stands alone in it's class.  No one else would even bother to build this kind of functionality."  It includes a property editor and makes use of a number of Delphi features. TSmiley is a must have for the serious Delphi component builder and user.

Hard copy documentation for TSmiley can be ordered directly from Smileyware for $1,000,000. This offer includes personal, unlimited, on-site support for TSmiley. Complete documentation for TSmiley will also be available in an upcoming issue of The Delphi Magazine. 

TSmiley does come with a rather strict licensing policy.  The first 100 million copies of an application that are sold using TSmiley are royalty free.  Any copies above 100 million require a royalty payment of $100,000 per copy.  This should enable developers to at least get users familiar with their applications before having to pay any usage fees.

The level of response from the developer community has been understandable.  Here are some comments and quotes about TSmiley -- 

"A truly useless component!" - David Intersimone, Head of Borland's Developer Relations

"Why would anyone want that?" - Pamela Hodges, Vice President of Smileyware Systems

"Goo goo, gah, gah" - Piper Hodges, CFO and Head of Marketing for Smileyware

