WinZip(R) version 5.6
Copyright (C) 1991-1995 Nico Mak Computing, Inc.
All Rights Reserved

This file provides information for Shareware Distributors and Disk Vendors
who wish to distribute the WinZip 5.5 package, including an extract from
the license agreement and suggested program descriptions and keywords.

                               Distribution

The complete license agreement is contained in the file LICENSE.TXT.

The following paragraph is an extract from the license agreement
regarding the distribution of the Shareware version of WinZip:

    You are specifically prohibited from charging, or requesting
    donations, for any such copies, however made; and from distributing
    the software and/or documentation with other products (commercial or
    otherwise) without prior written permission, with one exception:
--> Disk Vendors approved by the Association of Shareware Professionals
--> are permitted to redistribute WinZip, subject to the conditions in
--> this license, without specific written permission.

                Suggested One Line Program Description:

Archive utility w/built-in ZIP, TAR, gzip, and Unix compress files

                          Suggested Keywords:

ASP WinZip Windows ZIP UNZIP Drag Drop TAR gzip compress
Install Uninstall Archive Utility Shareware Virus Scan ARJ LZH SFX ARC

                         Suggested Description

WinZip brings the convenience of Windows to the use of ZIP files.
Includes PKZIP-compatible built-in zip and unzip, so PKZIP is not needed
for basic archive operations.

New in version 5.6 is built-in support for popular Internet file
formats:  TAR, gzip, and Unix compress.  Version 5.5 added the ability
to install, try, and UNINSTALL software distributed in ZIP files.  This
feature runs the install program in a ZIP, gives you a chance to try the
program, and OPTIONALLY deletes any new files, icons, program groups,
and restores any altered INI files.

WinZip includes a powerful yet intuitive point-and-click drag-and-drop
interface for viewing, running, extracting, adding, deleting, and
testing files in ZIP, LZH, and ARC files, including self extracting
archives.  Optional virus scanning support is included.

                           Other Information

Requirements:  Windows 3.1 or later.  No other programs are are required
               for basic ZIP operations.  Optional features require
               external programs, including the shareware PKZIP/PKUNZIP
               product from PKWARE, Inc. or ARJ from Robert Jung or
               LHA.EXE from Haruyasu Yoshizaki.  WinZip interfaces to
               several programs to access ARC files and optionally runs
               most virus scanning utilities, including Windows-based
               virus scanners.

Registration:  $29 (includes shipping) to receive disk with latest version

Author:        Nico Mak Computing, Inc, P.O. Box 919 Bristol, CT 06011 USA
