Win-eXpose-I/O (R) version 1.01
Copyright (C) 1994 Yonat Dascalu.
All Rights Reserved

		   WELCOME TO Win-eXpose-I/O v1.01 FOR WINDOWS
   Win-eXpose-I/O Copyright (C) 1994 Yonat Dascalu. All Rights Reserved

This file provides information for Shareware Distributors and Disk Vendors
who wish to distribute the Win-eXpose-I/O v1.01 package, including an extract
from the license agreement and suggested program descriptions and keywords.

                               Distribution

The complete license agreement is contained in the file LICENSE.TXT.

    You are specifically prohibited from charging, or requesting
    donations, for any such copies, however made; and from distributing
    the software and/or documentation with other products (commercial or
    otherwise) without prior written permission, with one exception:
--> Disk Vendors approved by the Association of Shareware Professionals
--> are permitted to redistribute Win-eXpose-I/O, subject to the conditions
--> in this license, without specific written permission.

                Suggested One Line Program Description:

Win-eXpose-I/O v1.01 File I/O Tracer/Debugger for Windows

                Suggested Compressed File Name:

			WXI101.ZIP  (or WXI101.ARJ)

                    Suggested Keywords:

XRAY, WINDOWS, FILE, SNOOPING, INTERRUPTS, Windows, Utility, Development, Tool,
Windows setup, Windows 3.1, Windows For Workgroups, Performance enhance, IO,
file, trace, snooping, programming

                         Suggested Description

Win-eXpose-I/O v1.01 File I/O Tracer/Debugger for utility for Windows.
Win-eXpose-I/O Gives real-time report on all files activities all over the
windows system (including windows & DOS boxes).
a MUST HAVE tool for any one who is trying to find out which files an
application is using or missing.
Great development and debugging utility for externaly monitoring files
Input/Output opeartion and windows performance enhance.

                           Longer Description

Win-eXpose-I/O v1.01 File I/O Tracer/Debugger for utility for Windows.
Win-eXpose-I/O is a windows snooping application that lets you examine in
real time what files each running application is using or trying to use.
Win-eXpose-I/O traces all the file activities in all the application and in
all the different VM (even DOS boxes) and gives you a clear picture on problems
troubleshooting (like where and what the hell is the help file / INI file
that the application is using or complaining that is missing).

Win-eXpose-I/O is a GREAT development and debugging utility for externaly
monitoring files Input/Output opeartion and tracking hidden problems and
preformence improvment spots, monitoring can be done on ANY APPLICATION no
metter if you have it's source code or not. (Great also for product support)

Win-eXpose-I/O is a MUST HAVE tool for anyone who is installing windows
software on the computer or just trying to make sure the current software
is working properly, Win-eXpose-I/O saves those HUGE amount of hours trying
to configure new or existing software by letting you know in real time what
files each application is using or seeking.

Win-eXpose-I/O application has a very intuitive and simple to operate user
interface, yet a very powerful one that lets any user novice to guru
use the program in just a meter of seconds, just run it and then activate
the other applications and you will see on the Win-eXpose-I/O screen a
real-time logging of all the file activities and their results.

Win-eXpose-I/O is also used as a GREAT performance improves by letting you
know for each application all the file seeking failures (like searching
for a file on the path) and then just by changing a few system settings
like PATH or working directory you will gain a performance improvement.

                           Other Information

Requirements:  Windows 3.1 / Windows for Workgroups, 80386 Processor or better 

Registration:  $US 29 (includes shipping) for single copy
               Multi-user licenses available at discount,
               see order.txt

Author:        Dascalu Yonat, 10 Azmaut Street, Ness-Ziona 74010, ISRAEL
               Email: 	dascalu@math.tau.ac.il   (preferable)
				OR
			75037.725@compuserve.com


