DirMatch(R) version 1.5.2
Copyright (C) 1994 Cliff Wong.
All Rights Reserved

This file provides information for Shareware Distributors and Disk Vendors
who wish to distribute the DirMatch 1.52 package, including an extract from
the license agreement and suggested program descriptions and keywords.

                               Distribution

The complete license agreement is contained in the file LICENSE.TXT.

The following paragraph is an extract from the license agreement
regarding the distribution of the Shareware version of DirMatch:

    You are specifically prohibited from charging, or requesting
    donations, for any such copies, however made; and from distributing
    the software and/or documentation with other products (commercial or
    otherwise) without prior written permission, with one exception:
--> Disk Vendors approved by the Association of Shareware Professionals
--> are permitted to redistribute DirMatch, subject to the conditions in
--> this license, without specific written permission.

                Suggested One Line Program Description:

Directory Match utility, Update Sub-Directory, Drag & Drop, Compare, Edit, Delete files and more.

                          Suggested Keywords:

DirMatch Windows Compare Launch Edit Delete Drag&Drop Update Utility Sub-Directories

                         Suggested Description

DirMatch matches two directories. It compares, edits, deletes and 
launches files. Side by side directories are displayed with functions 
provided to Copy, Edit, Compare and Delete files, Update directory and 
all their sub-directories. It let you view All, Different or Same Files.
 
                           Other Information

Requirements:  Windows 3.1 or Windows for Workgroups.  No other programs
               are required for basic operations.  Optional features
               require external programs, including the File Compare, File 
               Edit programs.  

Registration:  $12 to receive disk with latest version
Shipping/Handling: $5 Outside of US.

Author:        Cliff Wong, 12220 K Eagles Nest Court, Germantown, MD 20874
