           
Welcome to PKZIP for Windows, Version 2.50!


New features available in this release
--------------------------------------

PKZIP for Windows 3.1x, Windows 95 and Windows NT has many new and
exciting features.

  * Spanning

          Create spanned .ZIP files.  A spanned file is a .ZIP file
          that resides on more than one floppy disk or other
          removable media (such as a removable hard disk).

  * Windows Self-Extracting Archives

          PKZIP for Windows can create Windows self-extracting archives.
          This feature allows you to create archives that do not
          require PKZIP for Windows to extract files from the archive;
          the extraction code is built into the file itself.  The
          self-extractor can create a program group and register
          extensions.

  * Self-Extracting Spanned Files (Windows self-extractor)

          Self-extracting files can now also be spanned files!

  * Windows 95/NT Long Filename Support

          PKZIP for Windows can retain and restore Windows 95 and 
          Windows NT Long File Names.

  * 32 bit Windows 95/NT Version

          A 32 bit version of PKZIP for Windows is now included with
          this package.  This version has enhanced performance under
          32 bit operating systems.

  * Windows 95/NT Explorer Integration

          Create new, open and test existing, and extract files from
          .ZIP files within the Windows 95 and Windows NT v.4.0 Explorer.

  * Right Click Features

          Clicking the right mouse button activates a menu of the
          most often used features in PKZIP for Windows.

  * Copy / Move Files

          Quickly and easily copy or move files between different
          .ZIP archives without having to extract and recompress the
          individual files.

  * Convert Files

          PKZIP for Windows can convert .ZIP archives to and from 
          several file types:

              Normal .ZIP 
              Windows self-extracting 
              DOS self-extracting 
              DOS junior self-extracting

  * .ZIP Comment Support

          Add, edit and view .ZIP comments.

  * MS-DOS Name Support   

          PKZIP for Windows can be forced to store standard MS-DOS 8.3
          filenames.  This allows Windows 95 and Windows NT users to 
          create .ZIP files that will be compatible with users running 
          Windows 3.1x.

  * Adjustable Grid Display

          Save the column widths of the grid.  The font used in the
          grid is also customizable.

  * Uninstall

          A separate program is provided to uninstall PKZIP for
          Windows.

