      -----------------------------------------------------------------
      STACKER NOTE                                         STACKER NOTE
                      COMPRESSING A FLOPPYLESS NOTEBOOK
                          (Applies to Stacker 4.x)
                                      
      STAC FAX  4002 (01-31-1994)
      -----------------------------------------------------------------
                                      
      BACKGROUND
      
      The regular Stacker Setup will not run on a machine that doesn't
      have a floppy disk drive. You must start the Stacker Setup on
      another computer with a floppy drive, and have the capability of
      transferring files from that computer to the notebook with a
      program such as Laplink..
      
                                    Note
            It is important to remember that the Software License
         Agreement provides you with ONE copy of Stacker. Therefore,
         you can transfer Stacker to the notebook, but provisions of
            the agreement assume you'll delete it from any other
                                  computer.
                                      
      SOLUTION
      
      Use the following procedure to compress the hard disk in your
      notebook computer. You should have DOS on your notebook C drive.
      You must begin these procedures on a "host" computer having a
      floppy drive.
      
       1.  Insert the Stacker Program Disk into a floppy drive. Switch
           to the floppy drive, type SETUP, and press Enter.
       2.  The first screen is the Welcome to Setup. Press C to
           Continue with Setup.
       3.  The next screen will ask you to enter your name and
           company's name to personalize your copy of Stacker. Enter
           the requested information. Once your name and company are
           entered correctly, press C to Continue.
       4.  The next screen will ask you if you want to do an Express or
           Custom Setup. Choose "Custom".
       5.  You will next be asked where to copy the Stacker files. The
           title of the screen is "Create a Directory for Stacker". At
           this point press the X key to Exit Setup, and then the O key
           to  "OK" the exit.
       6.  Change to your floppyless notebook. Create a Stacker
           directory on the C drive of the notebook.
       7.  Use a transfer program such as Laplink to transfer the
           Stacker files from the Stacker floppies in the "host"
           computerto the Stacker directory of the notebook.
       
       8.  Use ED or another text editor to add the following to the
           end of the PATH statement in the AUTOEXEC.BAT file on the
           notebook:
                           ;C:\STACKER
       9.  Change to the Stacker directory on the C drive of the
           notebook.
       10. Type the following command to create a temporary 2 MB empty
           Stacker drive:
                           CREATE C:\STACVOL.DSK /S=2
           This step requires that the notebook's C drive has at
           least 2 MB of free disk space. If your notebook has no other
           drives after drive C then the new drive will be drive D.
           Otherwise it will assume the next available drive letter.
           The remainder of these instructions assume that the new
           drive is drive D.
       11. Change to the Stacker directory and type the command
           "CONFIG" and press enter. When asked if you wish to make the
           changes indicated respond Y for "Yes".
       12. Reboot the notebook to load the Stacker device driver and
           mount the empty D drive.
       13. Enter the following command to copy the Stacker files to the
           new drive:
                           COPY C:\STACKER\*.*  D:\
       14. Change to the D drive.
       15. Enter the following command to compress the C drive:
                           CREATE C:\STACVOL.000 /I /C=C /=P
       16. Type the command "CONFIG" and press enter. When asked if you
           wish to make the changes indicated respond Y for "Yes".
       17. Reboot the notebook to mount the compressed drive C as drive
           E.
       18. Change to the Stacker directory on drive E.
       19. Enter the following to remove the temporary D drive.
                           REMOVDRV  D:
           REMOVDRV will warn you that there is data on the
           drive. Do not worry about this.  Type YES and press Enter.
           REMOVDRV will ask you again to make sure you want to remove
           drive D, the temporary drive.  Again you should type YES and
           press Enter.
       20. Restart the notebook. Change to the Stacker directory and
           type the command "CONFIG" and press enter. When asked if you
           wish to make the changes indicated respond Y for "Yes".
           Restart the computer again.
       21. At this point your compressed drive will be drive D. Your C
           drive will be an uncompressed partition. You will be able to
           use your computer in this configuration, or you may exchange
           or "swap" the C and D drive if you desire.
           
       
       
       22. If you wish to swap the C and D drive do the following:
           
           A. Change to the DOS directory on the C drive. Type
              SYS D:
           B. Type ED and press Enter. This will bring up Stacker's
              text editor. From the File menu choose STACKER.INI. The
              file will be displayed. Ignore any lines beginning with
              "REM".
           C: Move your cursor to the end of the line that appears
              as follows:
              /C:\STACVOL.000,NS
           D: Change the "NS" at the end of the line to "SW" in
              order to swap the drives.. The line will now read:
              /C:\STACVOL.DSK,SW
           E: Save the file and restart your notebook. The Stacker
              Setup is now complete.
       
      -----------------------------------------------------------------
      Copyright 1994 Stac Electronics
