





 
                              Trade::Show(tm)
                            -------------------
               pcx images sequencer for demos/presentations
 
 
                    (for DOS- or Windows-based systems)
 
                        a product of RCCO Research
 
 
 
Introduction
-------------
Trade::Show(tm) is a deceptively simple-to-use application that allows
individuals or organizations to quickly create slideshow programs for
product or services demos or other presentations.  It takes a sequence of
user-prepared .pcx image files in 640x480x16 VGA format and displays that
sequence to customers, clients, or other end-users in a choice of three
methods:  at the end-user's own pace with a key click to advance images,
or with a self-running continuous demo, or as a variant on the first that
waits a few seconds for a key click, and if not found, advances auto-
matically.  All three methods are included in the present package.
 
Trade::Show demos/presentations will run under both DOS and Windows (full
DOS screen).  Its chief advantages, aside from the presentations themselves,
are both low cost and method of acquiring.  The copy included herewith is a
fully-functional evaluation copy available easily and universally through
the user-supported software marketplace.
 
 
Capabilities
-------------
This version of Trade::Show will display up to and including twenty (20)
prepared .pcx images.  (The registered copy allows up to forty (40) images
in sequence.)  Individual images may be designated for layering or
superimposing one on top of the other (similar to the appearance in
Microsoft Windows(tm) ), or with a clearscreen designation so that an
image will be presented with totally "clean" viewport.  Both capabilities
may be used and interchanged in any sequence/presentation.  (The included
samples demonstrate these capabilities).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 2


Running the program
--------------------
To display a pre-defined sequence of images, the user types at the DOS
prompt:
 
                              DEMO <enter>
                     or
                              DEMO2 <enter>
                     or
                              DEMO3 <enter>
 
In Windows(tm), the user need only double-click on the filenames DEMO.EXE,
DEMO2.EXE, or DEMO3.EXE in a File Manager window.
 
 
Preparation of images
----------------------
Trade::Show is particularly effective for software developers preparing
demo versions of their products, in that they can easily capture actual
screen shots with programs like Hijaak(tm) for Windows and modify them in
editing programs such as Windows(tm) Paintbrush.
 
The only requirement is that images must be finally saved in 640x480 16-
color VGA .pcx file format.  If you are doing image preparation in Windows,
you will have to load the 16-color video driver for 640x480 VGA in order to
prepare proper images.  This format is used since it is the most universal
that will allow presentations to be viewed on as many DOS and/or Windows
VGA systems as possible.  Do not build your images with 256 or more colors
as they will not display with Trade::Show.  The end-user should be able
to properly display using any VGA card and driver with 16 or more colors;
it is only during the preparation and saving of .pcx images that you must
use a 640x480x16 driver.
 
We have observed excellent, consistent results with using a program such as
Hijaak(tm) for Windows to capture entire DOS or Windows screens, or selected
areas of screens, or a particular window on a full Windows screen.  The pre-
parer then does final editing, adding of explanatory text or drawing of
lines or other pointers or other demonstrative aids, in a drawing program
(we suggest the one that comes with Windows 3.x:  Paintbrush).
 
Other graphics programs are likely to provide compatible material, but they
must be tried on a test basis with Trade::Show.  The two programs mentioned
above work well for most users, are widely available, and do not require
great technical or professional ability.  Scanned images will also be
effective in Trade::Show if they are saved in the proper format.  If one
format you are using seems not workable, try saving that image in another
program, such as Windows Paintbrush; we have often found that certain images
work better when converted or simply saved in another program's format even
though they may use the same .pcx extension.
 
When attempting to use monochrome pcx files, resave them as 16-color
640x480 VGA pcx files.  Even though the appearance will remain the same,
they will be saved in a format usable by Trade::Show.
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 3


Once you find the right combination of steps to produce pcx file formats
consistently usable by Trade::Show, you will save a great deal of time
and effort by always using that combination in future presentation
applications.
 
 
 
Required naming convention for .pcx files
------------------------------------------
After you have prepared and collected the desired .pcx files, simply name
copies of them in the sequence you wish them displayed; ie,
 
         Name the first to display:    DEMO1.PCX
         and then the second:          DEMO2.PCX
         the third:                    DEMO3.PCX
         and so on, up to              ...
         and including:                DEMO20.PCX
 
The above filenaming convention provides layering of images one on top of
the previous.
 
The preparer specifies a clearscreen before an image by appending an
underscore (_) to the prefix part of the file name.  To have a clearscreen
before the images are displayed, name them:
 
                                       DEMO2_.PCX
                                       DEMO3_.PCX
                                       ...
                                       DEMO20_.PCX
 
Please note that a full screen image usually does not need a clearscreen
command before its display.
 
You may intermix as you wish images that are designated for layering or
clearscreen; for example,
                                       DEMO1.PCX
                                       DEMO2_.PCX
                                       DEMO3_.PCX
                                       DEMO4.PCX
                                       DEMO5_.PCX
 
(The included samples provide a mixture of both designations; the demo for
which they were prepared used both effectively where needed.)
 
Simply maintain a consecutive numerical sequence in each presentation.  If
you skip a number (ie, DEMO6.PCX followed immediately by DEMO8_.PCX), the
program will complete and return to the system (or in the case of the self-
running version, cycle back to the beginning) without displaying the image
numbered outside of consecutive sequence.
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 4


Prepare for your audience
--------------------------
You will then arrange to have your eventual users operate a single, prepared
sequence of the properly named files in the same directory that contains
either (or all, if desired) DEMO.EXE, DEMO2.EXE or DEMO3.EXE, which are the
Trade::Show executable files.  All are very compact in size and efficient
in execution; any or all will take up relatively little space on any
distribution diskettes you may build for your demos/presentations.
 
The basic requirement is that all image files and the chosen executable(s)
be placed in the same directory on a hard drive (or ram drive).  You should
advise end-users against running your demo/presentation from a floppy
diskette, due to the slowness of building the on-screen image from reading
from a diskette.  We use a phrase in our readme files that says
 
   "For tolerable viewing results, please do not run the demo from a
      floppy disk."
 
You may wish to include this sentence or something similar in your
instructions to your potential audience.
 
Your end-users will certainly need VGA graphics capabilities to view your
demo/presentation.  If a user attempts execution on a non-VGA-capable
system, a simple screen will display the message
 
                     This demo requires VGA graphics.
                               (640x480x16)
 
and return to the system.
 
 
 
Three different methods of execution
-------------------------------------
The version of Trade::Show named DEMO.EXE requires a keypress (we suggest
the <spacebar> in our demos) to move to each succeeding image.  The
end-user may then proceed at any pace desired to properly peruse your demo.
 
The alternate version, DEMO2.EXE, is the self-running demo.  It will take
the same sequence of images you make available with the above-described
naming conventions and operate continuously until interrupted by a keypress
(usually the <Esc> key).  Demo2.exe changes screens about every six seconds,
until a key is pressed, at which point the program exits normally.  Demo2
is most efficient and effective when run on a system with fast video and a
disk cache large enough to hold your sequence of .pcx files.  It then runs
quietly and smoothly, offering a most professional presentation of your
materials.  Uses for the self-running demo would include unattended presen-
tations at shows or for store displays; real estate or other professionals
will make significant use of such capability.
 
The third method (DEMO3.EXE) is somewhat of a combination of the first two:
it waits about six seconds on each screen for a keypress.  If there is no
keypress, it proceeds to the next image automatically, much like the self-
running second method; unlike the second method, however, it is not a
continuous presentation that recycles to the beginning after the final



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 5


image -- it simply ends the one-time-through presentation much like the
first method.  Also, the user may press the <Pause> key on an enhanced
keyboard to hold an image in view for a longer period; when ready, the
user presses <spacebar> to continue.
 
At initial glance, you may feel this third form is more desirable than
the first method (DEMO.EXE), but do realize that certain images that may
contain a sizeable portion of text or other complex content may simply
leave the user's view too soon without providing enough time for adequate
perusal.  A six-second delay was found to be about the maximum amount to
utilize without the viewer feeling that something had gone wrong with the
demo or feeling that images stayed on the screen for an agonizingly long
period of time.
 
There will always be particular instances that any of the three methods of
execution described above will be most effective.  We felt strongly that
it was very important to provide all three methods to potential users of
Trade::Show in the current version.
 
 
 
 
Troubleshooting
----------------
The only caveat we might offer with this program is that if you find that
your images do not display, or do not display properly, it is probably
because they have been created or saved in a format that may only be
slightly incompatible with that which Trade::Show requires.  Before you
decide that the Trade::Show program is not usable in such instances,
try the suggestion given before for re-saving your .pcx files in another
graphics program.  Most image-editing programs will read files in several
formats, and often allow conversions, or perhaps will save them in a later
.pcx format that will work with applications such as Trade::Show.
 
Also, make certain that images are saved in 640x480 by 16-color format by
using the proper software and/or video drivers to handle the format.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Program Requirements
---------------------
The requirements for running Trade::Show include a DOS-compatible PC with
512k memory, VGA graphics capability, and a hard drive.  DOS 3.1 (or later)
or Windows 3.x (or later), is needed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 6


The Unregistered Evaluation Copy
---------------------------------
The unregistered version of this program is intended for use in evaluation
situations only.  It may be used for ninety (90) days within your own
organization by persons that have knowledge and understanding of the fact
that this is an unregistered evaluation copy.
 
The payment of the $39.95 purchase price for a registered copy of this
program will allow license for a single user to make use of program for
purposes traditionally accepted for software programs of this type.
Additional site license fees of $15.00 per user may be paid at the time of
registration, or any time in the future after initial registration at the
then current license fee in effect.  There are no runtime royalties involved
in the distribution of your materials utilizing a duly registered copy of
Trade::Show.
 
The license and authorized registration shall not be construed as being
in effect until direct payment has been received by RCCO Research and an
authorized, registered copy has been sent in the registered user's/users'
name(s).




 
 
 
 
 
 
The Registered Version of Trade::Show
--------------------------------------
The registered copy allows up to forty (40) images in sequence, in contrast
to the limit of twenty in the evaluation copy.  Special builds allowing for
sequences of greater than forty images may be obtained from RCCO Research
for a very nominal fee; please write for a quote, indicating whether the
use is for a single-user license or multiple users, and the exact capacity
required.  We can also vary the six-second timed screen delays to another
interval with special builds.  Such custom builds may be purchased with or
after initial registration.
 
Currently, documentation for the registered version is an on-disk text
file, similar to the present format.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 7


Licensing Information
----------------------
This program is licensed and supplied as is, without any warranty.  To the 
extent permitted under applicable law, RCCO Research Associates disclaims 
all warranties, either expressed or implied, with respect to this software 
program, its quality, performance, merchantability, or fitness for any 
particular purpose.
 
In particular, this software program is not guaranteed to prevent or detect
damage to your data or programs.  In no event shall RCCO Research Associates
be liable for any claims for lost profits or any damage, including, but not
limited to, special, incidental, consequential or other damage (including, 
without limitation, damages for loss of business profits, business interrup-
tion, loss of business information, or other pecuniary loss) arising out of
the use of or inability to use this RCCO Research Associates product, even
if RCCO Research Associates has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.  Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental
or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply
to you.  In no case shall RCCO Research Associates's liability exceed the
license fees paid for the right to use the licensed version of the software. 
 
The license agreement and warranty shall be construed, interpreted and
governed by the laws of the state of Tennessee.
 
This software program is protected under the Copyright Laws of the United 
States of America and all applicable International Copyright Conventions.  
Makers and/or users of illegal or unauthorized copies of the registered 
version are subject to prosecution under these laws.
 
The names  Trade::Show(tm)  and  OBJECTS::NEXUS(tm)  are trademarks of RCCO
Research Associates.  Windows(tm) is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.
Other trade names referenced herein are either trademarks or registered
trademarks of their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 8


 
Registration Notes
-------------------
Registration will obtain a copy of the most recent authorized version and
provide legal authorization for continued use of the program after a
ninety-day (90-day) evaluation period.
 
You are granted a restricted-use (see above section entitled "The Unregis-
tered Evaluation Copy") evaluation period of up to ninety (90) days to
determine whether or not you wish to purchase a registered copy of this
software.
 
To obtain a registered copy, you may mail an advance-payment registration
fee of U.S. $39.95 + $2.55 shipping/handling ($7.05 non-U.S. shipping/
handling, $4.05 for Canada) directly to RCCO Research.  Additional users
are $15.00 per user.  Payment is to be made by check or money order only,
please.  We require payment with order so that prices and fees may be kept
as reasonable as possible; this policy has worked well for us in recent
years, as we observe increased registration on products that are reasonably
priced.  For credit card and telephone orders, see the Additional Ordering
Options note below.
 
An invoice will be included with your order, showing the registered serial
number(s) applicable to the purchase.  We can provide a pro forma invoice
to those corporations or institutions that require same before payment can
be issued; shipment will be made promptly upon receipt of payment.  Prices
and/or registration and/or license fees are subject to change.
 
Tennessee clients please include the required 8.5% sales tax on both the
product amount and shipping/handling as mandated by the state.
 
International clients must pay by check or money order in U.S. dollars, drawn
on a U.S. bank or the U.S. branch of an international bank.  Please realize
that international postal money orders are considerably delayed through the
postal systems and may not be the most expedient way of relaying payment.  An
often-used form of payment consists of obtaining a dollar-denominated money
order from the local American Express office which you may then airmail to
us along with your order.
 
Please indicate program name and current version number on your order; you
may use the Order.frm file provided on the disk (or the program directory)
or simply send a note or letter with your name, organization name, address,
program name & version, number of users being licensed, and remittance.
Your comments on our programs are welcomed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                  Page 9


 
     Additional ordering options:
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     CREDIT CARD ORDERS ONLY -
     You may order a registered copy of this RCCO Research program
     with MC, Visa, Amex, or Discover from PsL, Public (software)
     Library of Houston, Texas by calling 800-242-4775 or 713-524-6394,
     or by FAX to 713-524-6398, or by CompuServe E-mail to 71355,470.
     You may also mail credit card orders to PsL at P.O. Box 35705,
     Houston, TX 77235-5705.  PsL's item/product number for Trade::Show
     is #11624.
 
     THE ABOVE NUMBERS ARE FOR ORDERS ONLY.
     Any questions about the status of the shipment of the order,
     registration options, product details, technical support, volume
     discounts, dealer pricing, site licenses, etc. must be directed in
     writing to RCCO Research, P.O. Box 196, Gatlinburg, TN 37738.  To
     ensure that you get the fastest possible delivery of your registered
     copy, PsL will notify us the day of your order and we will promptly
     ship the materials directly to you.  There are no additional fees
     for ordering by credit card.
 
     Your credit card number is *not* transmitted to RCCO Research, but
     rather is processed by PsL as part of their software registration
     service.
 
     The above service is made available as a convenience to client
     individuals who feel comfortable with ordering by telephone and
     with a credit card.  Established concerns may prefer to order
     directly from RCCO Research with the company's own business
     check.
 
     The PsL staff cannot answer non-order inquiries.
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                 Page 10


 
Additional Information
-----------------------
If you have any comments or questions regarding this program after (or with)
registration, please send them to:
 
                          RCCO Research Associates
                          P. O. Box 196
                          Gatlinburg, TN 37738-0196 (U.S.A.)
 
Please include your phone (day & evening) and fax (if any) numbers as well
as your mailing address and CompuServe number / Internet address (if any) on
ALL written communications.  Please indicate the serial number from your copy
of the program as well as your CustID number.  Our E-mail addresses are
provided to registered users along with the invoice.
 
 
RCCO Research also publishes another program of related interest:
Display::Runner(tm), a pcx images sequencer for store/show advertising/sales
messages (for DOS- or Windows-based systems).  Quickly create self-running
slideshow applications of sequential messages for product/services
advertising, sales or other presentations.  As a self-running continuous
display, the sequence is timed at approximately one second for each image.
User-prepared 640x480x16 VGA .pcx image files are utilized.  Also included
is a sequence of sample pcx files intended for demonstration purposes to
show the method and possibilities of program usage.
 
Please consult your favorite user-supported software source for the
availability of Display::Runner and many other RCCO Research DOS and Windows
programs.
 
 
 
Q. I see the file Order.frm [order form] in my  \TRADESHW  directory.  How
     may I print it out on my printer?
 
A. To print the registration order form from DOS, make sure your printer is
     on and ready with at least 2 sheets of paper, change to the  \TRADESHW
     directory and at the DOS prompt, type the following:
 
                           COPY ORDER.FRM PRN <enter>
 
   Or, if you are in Windows(tm), launch Notepad, open the file Order.frm in
   the  \TRADESHW  directory.  From the File menu, select Page Setup to set
   all margins minimally:  0 for Left, Right, Top, Bottom Margins.  Delete
   the default header and footer items.  Select OK.  Then from the File
   Menu, select Print to print out the order form.  (If you wish to fill in
   the form with your order information before printing, it would be best to
   open Order.frm in a word processor, such as Write, because Notepad does
   not have an overwrite mode in Windows(tm) 3.x.)
 
 
 
 
 



TRADESHW.TXT              Trade::Show  Documentation                 Page 11


 
Trade::Show(tm)
----------------
pcx images sequencer for demos/presentations
(for DOS- or Windows-based systems)
 
 
an OBJECTS::NEXUS(tm) application
 
 
 
(C) Copyright 1994-95 RCCO Research Associates
All Rights Reserved under International Conventions
Product of U.S.A.
 
 
 
RCCO Research Associates
(Technical Publishers - Est. 1965)
Post Office Box 196 / Gatlinburg, Tennessee 37738 (U.S.A.)

