   Welcome to SimTel, the Coast to Coast Software Repository (tm)
                          a service of
              Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc.
          5850 Dixie Highway, Clarkston, MI 48346, U.S.A.
             (810) 623-6700 voice - (810) 623-1469 fax 

            COAST TO COAST TELECOMMUNICATIONS COPYRIGHT

The entire contents of SimTel, the Coast to Coast Software Repository
(tm), are copyrighted by Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc.,
Copyright 1993-1994, all rights reserved, as a collective work
(compilation copyright) under the Copyright laws of the United States
of America.  Except as noted below, the copying, reproduction, or
publication of any part of the Service is prohibited, unless expressly
authorized by Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc.

(A compilation copyright is granted when an organization lawfully
collects or acquires information and organizes it in a way that adds
value to the collection.  A compilation copyright grants to the owner
certain rights, such as the right to control further distribution of
the compilation of works).

Some material in Repository may be copyrighted by others.  The owner
of an individual work added to the compilation ALSO retains his or her
copyright and the right to control further distribution of his or her
work.  The copyrights asserted by Coast to Coast Telecommunications,
Inc. do not supersede an author's copyrights; in the case of
ShareWare, for example, the author still retains his or her
copyrights.  In the case of Public Domain Software, we assert that
Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc. owns the copyrights to the
copies available for distribution by the Repository, as part of our
compilation copyright.

All material in the Repository is provided solely for the downloader's
personal use!  No re-sale or re-distribution for profit is allowed
without the express written permission of Coast to Coast Telecommuni-
cations, Inc.

Neither the directory structure nor the index files of the Repository
may be reproduced without explicit permission from the copyright
holder, Coast to Coast Telecommunications, Inc.  They may not be
utilized for any purpose other than locating and getting files from
the Repository, or from authorized sources of redistribution.

PLEASE NOTE:  Due to the large number of files available, the
Repository maintainers cannot possibly attempt to validate the proper
operation of the various programs.  When a program bug is reported,
immediate action is taken to either correct the error or remove the
offending program from the Repository.  Still, users must understand
that all programs are offered AS IS, and the Repository maintainers
specifically disclaim any liability should these programs malfunction
or cause damage, incidental or otherwise.  When testing ANY new
Software, be certain that all information stored on disk is backed-up
before you start, so that you can recover if files are damaged or
erased.  This is particularly true if you have a hard disk, in which
case malfunctions can be spectacularly disastrous.

                     Information on mirroring
         SimTel, the Coast to Coast Software Repository (tm)

Sites wishing to mirror the SimTel collection will be mirroring the
/SimTel/msdos and /SimTel/win3 directories on the primary mirror site
OAK.Oakland.Edu.  The collections must be mirrored as-is, with no
changes in content or the arrangement of the directories.  All files,
including the copyright notices and .message files, must be included.
No other files may be added to these directory trees.  The paths should
include the name SimTel (or simtel if you prefer lower case), followed
by msdos and win3, for example: /pub/SimTel/msdos or /pub/simtel/msdos,
/pub/SimTel/win3 or /pub/simtel/win3.  There should be no mention of
oak or oak.oakland.edu.  The reason for the two-level directory is
to clearly identify the source of the collections.  Please contact
info@Mail.Coast.NET to obtain permission to mirror this collection.
A mirror site agreement is required.

Keith Petersen
General Manager of SimTel, the Coast to Coast Software Repository (tm)
Internet: w8sdz@SimTel.Coast.NET     or     w8sdz@Vela.ACS.Oakland.Edu
Uucp: uunet!simtel.coast.net!w8sdz               BITNET: w8sdz@OAKLAND
