
       OS/2 Upload Information Template for ftp-os2.cdrom.com

Archive Name: CAOSW108.zip
Program Description: CAOS Warp Notes v108
Operating System: Built on OS/2 2.1, works on Warp.
Program Source: jerome@supernet.ab.ca

New submission. See following notes for details.

Your name: Jerome Yuzyk
Your email address: jerome@supernet.ab.ca

Proposed directory for placement: Information, Warp, OS/2 2.x


Lots of things you may want to know about OS/2 Warp, brought to you by

               CAOS/2: Central Alberta OS/2 Users Group

CAOSWmdd.INF  is an OS/2 on-line information file that contains information
              about Warp in general, and resources specific to Canada and
              the prairie provinces. Use VIEW to read it.

              The version of the file is noted in its file name:
                m  = the month of issue (single-byte hex)
                dd = the day of issue (decimal)

              This INF is meant to tie together a number of loose pieces
              to help newcomers, especially those expected to support Warp,
              get up to a decent speed fairly quickly. Right now it's a bit
              rag-tag, but that is in the interest of getting *something*
              together that will be different from what is already available.
              Expect a number of pieces in this INF to disappear from future
              versions when the Official Warp FAQ is released.

We hope you enjoy reading this file, and perhaps it will provide you
with a little something you haven't had already.  If you're ever up our
way, make sure to give us a call if you need an OS/2 "fix" or even just
a strong coffee.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Jerome Yuzyk       BRIDGE Scientific Services        jerome@.supernet.ab.ca
Chairman, CAOS/2: Central Alberta OS/2 Users Group        Edmonton, Alberta



This version (108) adds two nifty new features to a previously-local release:
1. Seamless multi-paned windows. Check out the CAOS Guy page. Unfortunately
   so many window controls turned off for one page means the next page does
   weird things when it turns them back on. But I'll be re-formatting all
   pages to have fewer controls and more display real estate. CAOS Guy, for
   example, is composed of two panels nested within a third, with scroll
   bars, panel frames and min/max buttons turned off.
2. Several hotspots launch other programs. Check out Make Comments (lame,
   but cute) and Tips and Tricks -> Swap File Allocation. These hotspots
   assume you have a pretty "stock" Warp installation, and right now use
   only E.EXE and DIR. Make Comments will create a file in whatever directory
   you run the INF from, but the rest of the spots are harmless *provided
   you do not save anything* (unless you want to). At no time is anything
   done unless you request it, and I have tried to make the language around
   each of these spots indicate that it will start another program.

BEWARE of Number 2! Always remember that [F3] in the E editor is 
                    Exit with No Save.

