CMail v.2.5 by Chance C. Geurin  01/01/95

This is a text mode mail reader for IBM's TCP/IP.  I found that I needed
this in order to read my mail remotely.

New Features:
------------
- New name, same version.
- Added support for smtps
- Added Reply-To: field
- Added fowarding
- Completely reworked the config file.  Much better.
- Added support for remote printing so you can print your messages
  at home.
- Can change folders on the fly.  Also, you can give CMail a
  folder name on the command line.
- Fixed several minor bugs:
  1. Fixed (I hope) the Ctrl-Z problem.
  2. AutoCheck no longer hogs the CPU.
  3. Can back out of a X# command.
  4. Other stuff that I've now forgotten about.


NOTES:
------
CMail will update the current folder.  If you are running LaMail concurrently,
LaMail won't know about the messages you deleted.  Before reading _any_
mail in LaMail, hit F2 (refresh).  This will cause LaMail to re-read the
current folder.  If you don't refresh, and click on a message that you
deleted using CMail, LaMail WILL crash!

When saving messages, if the default filename is satisfactory, press
Enter.  If the file name specified exists, messages will be appended.

One can hit 'q' when prompted with '--MORE--' to quit to the menu.
Pressing <Return> at the menu will cause MAIL to refresh.  Use this to
check for new mail if Auto Check isn't enabled in the CMail.cfg.

Whenever you use a capital letter command, CMail will then be looking
for more input (a number).  If this is not what you intended, just hit
return.  CMail will then ignore the command.

Max messages are 500, if this is too little, let me know.

INSTALL:
--------
- Put the following statement in your CONFIG.SYS:

  SET MAILDIR=C:\PATH

  Where PATH is the place that you put CMail.cfg.

- Edit CMail.CFG.  It is documented and self-explanatory

- Make sure your mailer program is in your path.
  Available mail transports:
  sendmail - Comes with IBM's TCP/IP
  pop - Uses the pop protocol and is available on the 'net
  smtps - sendmail replacement that works with smtpd in order
    sort incoming mail.

Special thanks to:
 Adam M. Lambert for testing the popmail part out.
 Jason B. Tiller for testing the smtps stuff out.
 Clark K. Gaylord for comments and name suggestions.

This program (CMail) is freely distributable, but copyright is retained by:
Chance C. Geurin (1995)
geurin@nosc.mil
