MESA 2 FOR OS/2
The spreadsheet that's more than the sum of its parts.

Thank you for looking at the Mesa 2 for OS/2 demo application. The 
application is available wherever you obtained this file, in a file 
called mesa2.zip.

To install it, unzip mesa2.zip on your hard disk and then run 
the installation program.  Mesa 2 requires 3 MB of space on your 
hard disk.  

Once you have installed Mesa 2, you may run it in demo mode without 
a license number.  The demo will allow you to create limited-size Mesa 2 
workbooks, but is otherwise fully functional.

If you are interested in purchasing a copy of Mesa 2 for OS/2,
please contact your favorite OS/2 reseller. If you have any questions,
or if you are an OS/2 reseller interested in selling Mesa 2, please
contact us at 1 617 734 6372 or info@athena.com.

FOR MESA 2.0 USERS ONLY:
The same mesa2.zip file can be used to upgrade your copy of Mesa 2 to 
Mesa 2.0.1. Follow the same instructions as above to update your copy.
The same license, preferences settings, etc. should continue to work.
PLEASE NOTE: You may have to delete the *EPF files in your boot directory 
before updating Mesa. This is described in the section entitled 
"Installing Mesa 2" in your Getting Started guide.

The rest of this document is a list of features and benefits for your 
information. If you have other questions feel free to email us at 
info@athena.com or call 1 617 734 6372.

NATIVE FOR OS/2
Mesa 2 for OS/2 is a native spreadsheet that works the way you expect it to. 
Mesa 2 offers context-sensitive online help and pop-up menus, is SOM <TM> and 
CUA compliant and includes OpenDoc <R> spreadsheet parts.

Include your favorite REXX <TM> programs as Mesa 2 Scripts, or write Scripts 
directly within Mesa, to execute a series of commands with a single operation. 
REXX programs can access Mesa features through our MScript functions.

Mesa 2 takes full advantage of OS/2's advanced technology. Every Mesa file runs 
in its own thread, and Mesa 2 supports multi-threaded real-time feeds that 
update your data moment-by-moment, based on changes in the stock market or 
other real-time sources, without interrupting your work.

RELIABLE AND FAST
Mesa 2 seamlessly integrates time-tested, award-winning technology for advanced 
operating systems with the full power of OS/2. Mesa 2 offers the speed and 
reliability you expect from a 32-bit operating environment - fast file loading 
and saving, fast recalculation, and 3-D workbooks containing billions of cells 
in which to store and analyze your data.

FEATURES FOUND IN NO OTHER SPREADSHEET
Formula Inheritance <TM> lets you apply object-oriented design to building and 
maintaining your spreadsheets, by dynamically linking ranges. When you change a 
formula in one cell, all linked cells automatically inherit the new formula, 
eliminating tedious cut-and-paste operations.

Use SmartFill to generate dynamic sequences of numbers, days, months etc., or 
to dynamically link a range of cells through Formula Inheritance, with a single 
keystroke.

EASY TO USE
Drag and drop ranges, color, fonts, and graphs wherever you want them.

Two-and three-dimensional graphing capabilities allow you to effectively 
communicate the meaning of your data through bar and column graphs, scatter and 
line graphs, pie charts, 3-D graphs, and more.

You can continue to use your legacy spreadsheet data because Mesa 2 imports 
Lotus (.wk1), Excel (.xls), and ascii file formats and exports into .wk1 
file format.
