


    ╔════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╗
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                             Facade(tm)                             ║
    ║                        -------------------                         ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║      developers' pcx splashscreen display for DOS applications     ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                     a product of RCCO Research                     ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ║                                                                    ║
    ╚════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════════╝



Capabilities
-------------
Facade(tm) is basically a simple loader program that allows DOS executable
applications to display a developer-designed VGA .pcx file as a sign-on
image.  Upon normal execution of the main application, Facade releases
itself from memory, thus adding no overhead to the executable sequence.

The splashscreen displays for four (4) seconds, then calls the main
executable just as it would have been executed from the system prompt.

Facade may be used with most traditional MS-DOS language executables,
including those created with CA-Clipper, Borland Turbo Pascal, QuickBASIC,
PowerBasic, Visual Basic(tm) for DOS, FoxPro, dBase, Clarion, C, etc.

Facade image displays will run under both DOS and Windows (full DOS screen).
The utility is particularly effective for software developers preparing
copyright or other splashscreens of their products.  The chief advantages,
aside from the presentations themselves, are both low cost and method of
acquiring.  The copy included herewith is a fully-functional evaluation
copy available easily and universally through the user-supported software
marketplace.

Please note there is a similarly-named version of Facade called Facade-C
(Facade for Clipper), also from RCCO Research, which is specifically designed
for developers using CA-Clipper(R).  The present version of Facade will also
work well with Clipper, but we must point out the similar names to help avoid
confusion about the two products.
 



Facade.exe and the sample files
--------------------------------
To run the files included in this package (FACADE.EXE and 2 sample files:
_ADMIN.PCX, _OVERL.EXE) simply execute

                           FACADE <enter>

from the DOS prompt.




Preparation of images
----------------------
Facade is particularly effective for software developers preparing copyright
or other splashscreens of their products, in that they can easily capture
usable materials with programs like Hijaak(tm) for Windows and modify or
create them in editing programs such as Windows(tm) Paintbrush.
 
The only requirement is that images must be finally saved in 640x480 16-
color VGA .pcx file format.  If you are doing image preparation in Windows,
you will have to load a 16-color video driver for 640x480 VGA in order to
prepare proper images.  This format is used since it is the most universal
that will allow presentations to be viewed on as many DOS and/or Windows
VGA systems as possible.  Do not build your images with 256 or more colors
as they will not display with Facade.  The end-user should then be able
to properly display using any VGA card and driver with 16 or more colors;
it is only during the preparation and saving of .pcx images that you must
use a 640x480x16 driver.
 
We have observed excellent, consistent results with using a program such as
Hijaak(tm) for Windows to capture entire DOS or Windows screens, or selected
areas of screens, or a particular window on a full Windows screen.  The
preparer then does final editing, adding text, drawing lines or other objects,
in a drawing program.  For example, the sample sign-on screen provided with
this package was done entirely in the program that comes free with Windows:
Paintbrush.  The inset picture was captured from a black and white line
drawing with a hand scanner and edited in Paintbrush.
 
Other graphics programs are likely to provide compatible material, but they
must be tried on a test basis with Facade.  The two programs mentioned
above work well for most users, are widely available, and do not require
great technical or professional ability.  Scanned images will be effective
in Facade if they are saved in the proper format.  If one format you are
using seems not workable, try saving that image in another program, such as
Windows Paintbrush; we have often found that certain images work better when
converted or simply saved in another program's format even though they may
use the same .pcx extension.
 
When attempting to use monochrome pcx files, resave them as 16-color
640x480 VGA pcx files.  Even though the appearance may remain the same,
they will be saved in a format usable by Facade.
 
Once you find the right combination of steps to produce pcx file formats
consistently usable by Facade, you will save a great deal of time and effort
by always using that combination in future applications.
 
 
 


Required naming convention for the .pcx file
---------------------------------------------
After you have prepared the desired .pcx file, simply rename it

                                 _ADMIN.PCX

The basic requirement is that the image file and the related executables be
placed in the same directory on a hard drive.  Alternatively, the executables
may be in the path, but the file _admin.pcx must be local in every directory
from which you wish the image to display.  You should advise end-users against
running your application from a floppy diskette, due to the slowness of
building the on-screen image when reading from a diskette.

Your end-users will certainly need VGA graphics capabilities to view your
splashscreen.  If a user attempts execution on a non-VGA-capable system, a
simple screen will very briefly display the message
 



                   ╔════════════════════════════════════════╗
                   ║                                        ║
                   ║          Loading application...        ║
                   ║                                        ║
                   ╚════════════════════════════════════════╝



              This software program contains copyrighted material.
              All Rights Reserved under International Conventions.

 



and continue without much delay.  (The wording on this screen may be changed
by the developer with a hex editor, if desired.)





Renaming the related executables
---------------------------------
The developer's executable application to be launched should be renamed

                        _OVERL.EXE  (or _OVERL.COM, if a .com file)


The file FACADE.EXE would be then renamed to 'MYAPP.EXE' or whatever the
developer's application was originally called, so that the end-user executes
the original program name.

The calling sequence then becomes:

                        MYAPP.EXE <enter>

       displays         _ADMIN.PCX  (if VGA system is found)

       then executes    _OVERL  (.exe or .com)


at which point the developer's original application (now called _OVERL.EXE
or _OVERL.COM) will take over and execute normally.  Please recall that very
early versions of DOS will not support renaming of executable files; in 1994
and beyond, we trust this will no longer present a problem.

Clipper developers please take note of the Clipper-specific comments about
renaming the main application, under the section Troubleshooting, below.

You need not issue a clearscreen command at the beginning of your applica-
tion.  Facade clears the screen automatically upon exiting.





Troubleshooting
----------------
One caveat we might offer with this program is that if you find that your
images do not display, or do not display properly, it is probably because
they have been created or saved in a format that may only be slightly
incompatible with that which Facade requires.  Before you decide that the
Facade program is not usable in such instances, try the suggestion given
before for re-saving your .pcx files in another graphics program.  Most
image-editing programs will read files in several formats, and often allow
conversions, or perhaps will save them in a later .pcx format that will work
with applications such as Facade.
 
Also, make certain that images are saved in 640x480 by 16-color format by
using the proper software and/or video drivers to handle the format.

Any developer who uses the .RTLink linker and experiences loading errors
with an application and Facade should be cognizant of the information
provided below for Clipper users and be prepared to make similar adjustments,
if needed.  Please let us know if you have continued or other difficulties
in making Facade work as described, as well as any solutions or workarounds
you may have found.

 
Clipper-only:
--------------
CA-Clipper(R) 5.x developers using .RTLink or BLINKER who experience runtime
unrecoverable error messages 415 (cannot open overlay file) or 416 (read
error on overlay file) when renaming their executable files to _OVERL.EXE
with the DOS REN command should simply relink the executable as follows:
specify in the .lnk file that the output name is to be _OVERL.EXE (i.e.,
OUTPUT _OVERL).

Developers using BLINKER's SwpRunCmd() function should well-test any
application that is loaded with Facade.  If you experience a swap error when
attempting to return from a SwpRunCmd() call, you should consider whether or
not that Blinker function is absolutely essential to the application.  We
know of no workaround at this time other than using the Clipper RUN command.

Clipper 5.x developers may also wish to evaluate the companion program,
FACADE-C (Facade for Clipper), a special version of Facade that addresses
Clipper-only issues, including elimination of any momentary screen delay from
the time that Facade calls _OVERL.EXE to the time that it takes for a large
Clipper application to load (Facade-C, with provided Clipper coding, will
allow the Clipper application to load during the time the pcx image is
displayed on the screen).  Facade-C also provides for a default command-line
setting of //E:0 //F:31.  The length of time the image is displayed to the
end-user may be specified by the developer (standard Facade is set at an
invariable 4 seconds).  While adding some coding (usually about six lines)
on the part of the Clipper developer, Facade-C differs from the standard
version of Facade in that it is slightly less convenient to set up and use.

Facade-C is significantly different in internal operation from standard
Facade and may offer an advantage for the serious Clipper developer.  The
executable file sizes for Facade and Facade-C are very similar, however --
a factor that should appeal in particular to the Clipper developer.  A
fully-functional evaluation copy of Facade-C may be obtained from traditional
user-supported software sources, including the Clipper forum library on
CIS and from PsL, Public (software) Library (800-242-4775 or 713-524-6394).
 
 
 
 
Program Requirements
---------------------
The requirements for running Facade include a DOS-compatible PC with 512k
memory, VGA graphics capability, and a hard drive.  DOS 3.1 (or later) or
Windows 3.x (or later) should be utilized.




The Unregistered Evaluation Copy
---------------------------------
The unregistered version of this program is intended for use in evaluation
situations.  It may be used for ninety (90) days within your own organ-
ization by persons that have knowledge and understanding of the fact that
this is an unregistered evaluation copy.

The payment of the $24.95 purchase price for a registered copy of this
program will allow license for a single user to make use of the program for
purposes that are traditionally accepted for software utilities of this
type.  Additional site license fees of $10.00 per user may be paid at the
time of registration, or any time in the future after initial registration
at the then current license fee in effect.  There are no runtime royalties
involved in the distribution of your materials utilizing a duly registered
copy of Facade.
 
The license and authorized registration shall not be construed as being
in effect until direct payment has been received by RCCO Research and an
authorized, registered copy has been sent in the registered user's/users'
name(s).
 



 
The Registered Version of Facade
---------------------------------
The registered copy performs the same execution as the evaluation copy, only
without the unregistered copy delay at the beginning of the VGA display.

Documentation for the registered version is an on-disk text file, similar to
the present format.





Licensing Information
----------------------
This program is licensed and supplied as is, without any warranty.  To the 
extent permitted under applicable law, RCCO Research Associates disclaims 
all warranties, either expressed or implied, with respect to this software 
program, its quality, performance, merchantability, or fitness for any 
particular purpose.
 
In particular, this software program is not guaranteed to prevent or detect
damage to your data or programs.  In no event shall RCCO Research Associates
be liable for any claims for lost profits or any damage, including, but not
limited to, special, incidental, consequential or other damage (including, 
without limitation, damages for loss of business profits, business interrup-
tion, loss of business information, or other pecuniary loss) arising out of
the use of or inability to use this RCCO Research Associates product, even
if RCCO Research Associates has been advised of the possibility of such
damages.  Some states do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental
or consequential damages, so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply
to you.  In no case shall RCCO Research Associates's liability exceed the
license fees paid for the right to use the licensed version of the software. 
 
The license agreement and warranty shall be construed, interpreted and
governed by the laws of the state of Tennessee.
 
This software program is protected under the Copyright Laws of the United 
States of America and all applicable International Copyright Conventions.  
Makers and/or users of illegal or unauthorized copies of the registered 
version are subject to prosecution under these laws.
 
The name Facade(tm) is a trademark of RCCO Research Associates.  Windows(tm)
is a trademark of Microsoft Corporation.  Other trade names referenced herein
are either trademarks or registered trademarks of their respective companies.
 
 
 
 
 
Registration Notes
-------------------
Registration will obtain a copy of the most recent authorized version and
provide legal authorization for continued use of the program after the
ninety-day (90-day) evaluation period.
 
To obtain a registered copy, you must mail an advance-payment registration
fee of U.S. $24.95 + $2.55 shipping/handling ($7.05 non-U.S. shipping/
handling, $4.05 for Canada) directly to RCCO Research.  Additional users
are $10.00 per user.  Payment is to be made by check or money order only,
please.  We require payment with order so that prices and fees may be kept
as reasonable as possible; this policy has worked well for us in recent
years, as we observe increased registration on products that are reasonably
priced.  For credit card and telephone orders, see the Additional Ordering
Options note below.
 
An invoice will be included with your order, showing the registered serial
number(s) applicable to the purchase.  We can provide a pro forma invoice
to those corporations or institutions that require same before payment can
be issued; shipment will be made promptly upon receipt of payment.  Prices
and/or registration and/or license fees are subject to change.

Tennessee clients please include the required 8.5% sales tax on both the
product amount and shipping/handling as mandated by the state.
 
International clients must pay by check or money order in U.S. dollars, drawn
on a U.S. bank or the U.S. branch of an international bank.  Please realize
that international postal money orders are considerably delayed through the
postal systems and may not be the most expedient way of relaying payment.  An
often-used form of payment consists of obtaining a dollar-denominated money
order from the local American Express office which you may then airmail to
us along with your order.  International orders are dispatched promptly when
using a credit card order as outlined below, under Additional Ordering
Options.
 
Please indicate program name and current version number on your order; you
may use the Order.frm file provided on the disk (or the program directory)
or simply send a note or letter with your name, organization name, address,
program name & version, number of users being licensed, and remittance.
Your comments on our programs are welcomed.



 
     Additional Ordering Options:
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     CREDIT CARD ORDERS ONLY -
     You may order a registered copy of this RCCO Research program
     with MC, Visa, Amex, or Discover from PsL, Public (software)
     Library of Houston, Texas by calling 800-242-4775 or 713-524-6394,
     or by FAX to 713-524-6398, or by CompuServe E-mail to 71355,470.
     You may also mail credit card orders to PsL at P.O. Box 35705,
     Houston, TX 77235-5705.  PsL's item/product number for Facade is
     #11622.

     THE ABOVE NUMBERS ARE FOR ORDERS ONLY.
     Any questions about the status of the shipment of the order,
     registration options, product details, technical support, volume
     discounts, dealer pricing, site licenses, etc. must be directed in
     writing to RCCO Research, P.O. Box 196, Gatlinburg, TN 37738.  To
     ensure that you get the fastest possible delivery of your registered
     copy, PsL will notify us the day of your order and we will ship the
     materials directly to you.  There are no additional fees for ordering
     by credit card.

     Your credit card number is *not* transmitted to RCCO Research, but
     rather is processed by PsL as part of their software registration
     ordering service.

     The above service is made available as a convenience to client
     individuals who feel comfortable with ordering by telephone and
     with a credit card.  Established concerns may prefer to order
     directly from RCCO Research with the company's own business check.

     The PsL staff cannot answer non-order inquiries.
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Information
-----------------------

Facade is written in C using Microsoft C 6.0.


If you have any comments or questions regarding this program after (or with)
registration, please send them to:
 
                              RCCO Research Associates
                              P. O. Box 196
                              Gatlinburg, TN 37738 (U.S.A.)
 
Please include your phone (day & evening) and fax (if any) numbers as well
as your mailing address (and CompuServe number / Internet address, if any) on
ALL written communications.  Please indicate the serial number from your copy
of the program as well as your CustID number.  Our E-mail addresses are
provided to registered users along with the invoice.
 

RCCO Research is the publisher of Visible::Setup(tm) (a developers'
installation utility for DOS applications used widely in many parts of the
world), as well as several other popular development tools.  Please consult
your favorite user-supported software source for the availability of these
and other RCCO Research DOS and Windows programs.
 
 


Facade(tm)
-----------
developers' pcx splashscreen display for DOS applications
 

 
(C) Copyright 1994-95 RCCO Research Associates
All Rights Reserved under International Conventions
Product of U.S.A.
 


RCCO Research Associates
Post Office Box 196
Gatlinburg, Tennessee 37738 (U.S.A.)
 

                                    
                     ┌─────────────────────────────────┐
                     │     RCCO Research Associates    │
                     │ Technical Publishers, Est. 1965 │
                     └─────────────────────────────────┘


