If you find a BUG, then please let us know!

Support can be reached by:

      (Please be sure to leave a route that we can reply to your messages!)

      By Internet:   Marc @ CLS.ORG

      If you have a MHS compliant Email system, you can either send Email
      directly to SUPPORT@CLS (214) 399-8616, or if you have access to 
      Novell's NHUB, you can send it to SUPPORT@CLS via NHUB.  

      A bulletin board (The MOCHINE BBS) is available at (214) 399-8414
      (14.4Kbps V32, USRobotics Dual Standard) for support questions and 
      downloading newer versions of the files.  Leave a message for SYSOP 
      or Marc Nowell.

      If you have access to a FidoNet or RBBSNet system, then you may send
      netmail messages to 1:124/1301 or 8:930/301.  Address the message to
      SUPPORT.  

Testing platforms mainly consist of:

      Netware 386 3.11
      MS-DOS 5.0 (with various memory managers - 386^MAX, QEMM, NONE)
      Email packages Pegasus Mail (now called FirstMail), DaVinci, Beyond
         Mail, and Office Logic.  The author mainly uses Lan Aces's Office
         Logic (RightHandMan offspring) (800) LAN-ACES Houston, Texas and
         like to heavily suggest others to evaluate it when choosing a
         Email package.  (They have 30day evaluations.)
      MHS 1.5C (personal and network)
      Netware Global Messaging (NGM)
      Binkley 2.50
      Maximus's Squish.exe for packing/unpacking .MSG files
      US Robotics Courier HST 9.6K external
      US Robotics Courier HST 14.4K V42 external
      US Robotics Courier Dual Standard external
      Some testing with Intel Satisfaxtion card


Product List:

      NUTIL  - Network Utilities for the Network Administrator

      A collection of utilities to help maintain your local area network.
      Most utilities are used in command line or batch operation.  There
      are utilities are for:  Updating/maintaining workstation NIC drivers,
      checking workstation memory and diskspace, reporting server diskspace
      consumption by username, subdirectory name, and file extension, 
      checking network traffic, diagnostics on workstation network drivers,
      maintaining updated files on workstation and server subdirectories,
      reporting of user security information and creating other data files.

      CLERK  - MHS Gateway     General All-Purpose.

      Allows MHS email users to:  request files from host, receive a catalog
      of files from host, search for host files by date and search options,
      subscribe/unsubcribe/list to discussion (echo) lists, send messages / 
      files to the host that will be redistributed to others, page via beepers,
      copy/forward/page messages from user's mailboxes, execute batch/program 
      files, maintain the MHS host, and other functions.   Alphanumeric as 
      well as digital pager support.
      
      FIDOGATE - MHS Gateway   Gate messages between MHS and FidoNet formats.

      Allows MHS email users to send messages with attachments to FidoNet 
      netmail and echomail conferences.  Allows FidoNet email users to send
      messages with attachments to MHS email users.

[end]
