





                                   FireFly Software
                                  Order Information

                              EDOS 3.50i (June 16, 1993)

          This file contains important information you should read before
          ordering(page ???), and details on all products sold by FireFly
          Software (page ???). To save paper and time, our order form is
          included separately in the file ORDER.FRM. This allows you to
          view the information in this file on the screen if you wish, and
          print only the actual order form.

          PLEASE READ THE ORDER INFORMATION SECTION ON PAGE ??? BEFORE
          PLACING YOUR ORDER!  That section explains our order and payment
          policies. If you don't read over the policies before ordering you
          may make errors which delay your order and result in additional
          costs to you.

          If you live outside the U.S. and Canada we may have some overseas
          dealers within the next 6 months or so.


          The license agreement which governs your use of our products is
          included separately in the file LICENSE.DOC. Please read it
          before ordering. It is written in plain English, and explains
          your rights and responsibilities as an EDOS user.

          This file is formatted at 60 lines per page, and contains form
          feeds and page footers. It can be viewed with a file viewer such
          as the internal TYPE command, or printed using the command:

                     copy orderinf.doc prn

          Printing it with a program that formats the pages is not likely
          to work due to the formatting included in the file.


          1  Order Information


          -----------------

          This section contains ordering details for all FireFly Software
          products,including:

          * Satisfaction guarantee           * Multi-system licenses
          * Order processing and shipping    * Ordering from a dealer
          * Payment and purchase orders      * Government customers
          * International orders             * Resale and bundling

          See the file ORDER.FRM for the forms you need to place your
          order.














          For convenient phone ordering call us between 9:00 AM and 5:00 PM
          Pacific U.S. time at 800-248-0809 (U.S. only; orders only
          please!) or 503-694-2282, or transmit your order form by fax any
          time to (503) 665-9876. You can also order via CompuServe (Mail
          to 71171,47), or the Internet (mail to 71171.47@compuserve.com).
          Please include all information on the order form with your
          electronic order, preferably in the same format. Any of the above
          numbers (other than the 800 orderline) can be used to contact our
          customer service department.


          2  Warranty and Satisfaction Guarantee


          We want you to be fully satisfied with the products you buy from
          us! All products sold by FireFly Software come with a 30-day
          warranty against physical manufacturing defects in the diskettes
          or manual. In addition, if you are not fully satisfied with EDOS
          or any other FireFly Software product you may return it at any
          time up to 30 days after purchase for a full refund. If you are
          dissatisfied with a product not produced by FireFly Software --
          such as TurboComm -- you may return it for a full refund if it is
          in resalable condition, or a 50% refund if not. See your manual
          for the complete text of our warranty. Please contact us for a
          return authorization before returning any product for a refund.


          3  Order Processing and Shipping


          Orders typically require 1 - 4 business days processing time
          before shipment, and may take more or less depending on our order
          backlog. We generally ship via Priority Mail or UPS Ground
          service within the U.S. Where appropriate, or when requested, we
          will ship via UPS or Federal Express. Shipping outside the U.S.
          is via Air Mail or UPS Air. UPS 1st(Red Label) & 2nd day air
          (Blue Label) and COD services are available within the U.S. (see
          below). Shipping time varies from 1 business day for UPS Ground
          to Washington State, to 6 business days for UPS Ground to the
          East Coast, to several weeks for countries outside the U.S. where
          mail service is slow. Express shipping via UPS next day air (Red
          Label) or Federal Express is available; contact us for rates.


          4  Shipping Charges:


          There is no additional charge for standard shipping within the
          U.S. and Canada. Orders to the U.S. can be shipped UPS 2nd day
          air (Blue Label) and / or COD for an additional $5 each ($10 for
          both). If you want one of these services please mark it clearly
          on your order form!





          6-93A








          Orders shipped outside the U.S. and Canada require an additional
          shipping charge to cover the increased shipping cost. The extra
          cost for air is $5.00.

          Contact us for shipping charges on orders for over five items.


          5  Payment Terms:


          All credit card charges will be authorized; your card will
          generally be charged the day your order is shipped or
          (occasionally) the day before. Personal checks may be subject to
          a bank clearance delay before shipment. All payments must be made
          in U.S. funds and drawn on a U.S. bank; see below for more
          details on international orders. There is a $10 charge for all
          returned checks.


          6  Company Purchase Orders


          We are pleased to accept purchase orders from established U.S.
          companies and government agencies. Our standard terms are net 30
          days. Orders under $100 must be prepaid. We require credit
          references from new customers purchasing on a PO. Please contact
          us for information before submitting your order, or include a
          standard credit reference sheet with your order.


          7  International Orders


          We are happy to accept orders from outside the U.S., but must
          require payment in the correct form to avoid the high fees
          charged by U.S. and non-U.S. banks for international check
          collections.

          If you are ordering from outside the U.S. and Canada, please
          include a phone number and a fax number with your order if
          possible. This allows us to contact you quickly and efficiently
          if we have questions about your order.

          We accept several forms of payment from customers outside the
          U.S.:

          ==>  MasterCard, Visa, (sorry no American Express). Be sure to
          include the exact name of the cardholder, the full card number,
          and the expiration date.

          ==>  A check or money order IN U.S. FUNDS AND DRAWN ON A U.S.
          BANK. Other checks can not be processed without exorbitant fees
          and unfortunately will have to be returned to you, resulting in
          delays and additional expenses for you. Checks from banks outside



          6-93A








          the U.S. are acceptable if and only if they are in U.S. funds and
          have the name and location of a correspondent U.S. bank printed
          on the face of the check.

          ==>  An international postal money order in U.S. dollars.

          ==>  A purchase order (minimum $200). We accept foreign purchase
          orders only from well established firms. You must contact us
          before ordering with a purchase order from outside the U.S..

          ==>  Cash (U.S. funds only) sent by registered mail. We do not
          recommend sending cash, but you may do so at your own risk.


          8  EDOS / Enhanced Pifeditor Upgrade Policy:


          The upgrade policies listed here apply to the U.S. versions of
          EDOS, and Enhanced Pifeditor as purchased from FireFly Software.
          Dealers outside the U.S. may have established different upgrade
          policies, check with your dealer for details. Our products use
          three-digit version numbers plus an alpha character (e.g. 3.50a).
          Maintenance releases are indicated by a change in the last alpha
          character (e.g. 3.01b, 3.01c); major upgrades are indicated by a
          change in the other digits (e.g. 4.02, 5.0).

          When you purchase a single copy of EDOS, Enhanced Pifeditor, or a
          multi-system license for any of our products, you can obtain
          maintenance releases and the next major release of the product on
          disk will be available at a reasonable cost from FireFly
          Software(typically about $30.00).


          9  Multi-System Licenses:


          Whether you are a major corporation, a small business, or an
          individual with more than one computer, if you plan to use our
          products on multiple systems you can save money by ordering a
          multi-system license rather than individual copies. (If all you
          want to do is use EDOS at work and at home you may not need a
          second copy; see the license agreement in the LICENSE.DOC file
          for details.)

          A multi-system license includes a master diskette and one manual.
          Additional manuals are $12 each (less for large quantities;
          additional shipping charges apply outside the U.S. and Canada).
          Multi-system licenses may be used at any number of physical
          sites, and on networked or stand-alone systems, as long as all
          support and distribution are handled through a single location.

          A schedule of multi-system license fees is below. FireFly
          Software also offers a simple policy which allows you to increase
          your license size at a reasonable price as you add new systems.



          6-93A








          Our pricing structure covers any number of systems and goes well
          beyond what is listed below; you pay only for the number of
          systems actually using the product. For larger licenses, a
          variety of custom arrangements can be made to meet your specific
          needs. A signed license agreement is required when licensing 100
          or more systems.

          Please contact us if you need more information on EDOS, Enhanced
          Pifeditor licenses, including prices not shown in the table
          below, or multi-system license information on TurboComm.

                       Table 1: Multi-System License Schedule


                    EDOS
                    -------
          2         $  100.00
          5            200.00
          10           350.00
          25           600.00
          50         1,100.00
          100        2,000.00
          250        4,000.00
          500        7,500.00
          1000      10,000.00


          10  Ordering From a Dealer:


          You can order EDOS, Enhanced Pifeditor, from the software dealer
          you or your company uses regularly. If your dealer does not carry
          the product you want, have them special-order it from FireFly
          Software at a discount to resell to you. (If you are a dealer see
          "Resale and Bundling" on page ??? for information on obtaining
          resale copies.)  Our products are available on a special-order
          basis from a number of larger chains, including Egghead Discount
          Software, 800 Software, and Voyager / CorSoft.


          11  U.S. Government Customers:


          EDOS are NOT presently available on the GSA Schedule for 1993,
          from federal resellers. Your PO will be accepted.


          12  Resale and Bundling of EDOS, and Enhanced Pifeditor:


          Reseller discounts for our products begin at 20% for a single
          copy, and increase substantially with volume. If you are a
          dealer, consultant, or reseller please contact us for pricing or
          request more information on the order form.



          6-93A








          We also offer attractive bundling arrangements for VARs,
          consultants, and OEMs who wish to bundle our products with
          another hardware or software product. The details and pricing are
          flexible and can be modified to meet your specific situation.
          Please contact us for more information.

          TurboComm is also available for resale; please contact us for
          details.



          13  Product Information


          -------------------

          This section describes each of FireFly Software's products, so
          you know what you're getting before you order. We are excited to
          be able to offer you some new products, including Enhanced
          Pifeditor to replace the Windows Pifeditor.


          14  EDOS, and Enhanced Pifeditor:


          EDOS is our "flagship" product. It is a DOS enhancement utility
          designed to add power, elegance, and flexibility to the DOS
          prompt. EDOS is a complete replacement for COMMAND.COM, the
          command processor which displays the "C:\> prompt and accepts and
          executes the commands you type. It offers dozens of features
          beyond those available with DOS alone. If you aren't familiar
          with what EDOS is and what it does, take a look at the manual for
          all the details. It offers you great power while working at the
          DOS prompt and in batch files, makes minimal use of your precious
          memory, and generally makes life with DOS a whole lot easier. It
          works with all versions of MS-DOS / PC-DOS from 3.3 up, and with
          DR-DOS.

          EDOS is $69,95 each including disk, manual, and a low-cost
          upgrade to the next major release (see page ??? for details on
          upgrades). If you need both products, purchase them together for
          just $85. If you have EDOS and want the other, the update is just
          $29. Multi-system licenses are also available (see page ???).

          FireFly Software's latest product is Enhanced Pifeditor
          ("EPifedit"). Epifedit is a complete replacement for PIFEDIT.EXE,
          the default Windows Pifeditor, and brings the full power of the
          Enhanced Pifeditor to Windows users.


          TurboComm is an advanced communications software support system.
          It makes possible com port communications up to 57k baud, even in
          the background, if using 16550 UARTs. Up to 115K baud if using a
          hardwire. The Software is about $50.00 and serial cards with



          6-93A








          16550 UARTs are available, including ones that support IRQ
          9,10,11,12.


          15  Trademarks


          Copyright 1991 - 1993, FireFly Software Inc., All Rights
          Reserved. Published by FireFly Software Inc., P.O. Box 5035,
          Oregon City, OR 97045USA, (503) 694-2282. EDOS is a registered
          trademark of FireFly Software Inc. OS/2 is a registered trademark
          of IBM Corporation. Windows NT is a trademark of Microsoft
          Corporation. Other product and company names are trademarks of
          their respective owners.]











































          6-93A














                                    Contents


                  1  Order Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
                  2  Warranty and Satisfaction Guarantee . . . . . . 2
                  3  Order Processing and Shipping . . . . . . . . . 2
                  4  Shipping Charges: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
                  5  Payment Terms:  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                  6  Company Purchase Orders . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                  7  International Orders  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
                  8  EDOS / Enhanced Pifeditor Upgrade Policy: . . . 4
                  9  Multi-System Licenses:  . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
                  10  Ordering From a Dealer:  . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                  11  U.S. Government Customers: . . . . . . . . . . 5
                  12  Resale and Bundling of EDOS, and Enhanced
                      Pifeditor: . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
                  13  Product Information  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
                  14  EDOS, and Enhanced Pifeditor:  . . . . . . . . 6
                  15  Trademarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
































                                          i

































































                                         ii














                                     Tables


               Table 1: Multi-System License Schedule  . . . . . . . 5















































                                         iii


