


                        PCBoard Node Information
                             Version 0.9b

                   Copyright (C) 1995 by Miska Sulander



Purpose

PCBoard Node Information is an OS/2 PM program which is intended
to replace PCBoard monitor suplied by Clark Development.

PCBoard Node Info will support nodes at least up to 10 and theoretically
there is no limit. I have only tested it with 10 nodes, so I have
no idea how it is going to work nodes above that. CPU resources being
used by the program depends on how many nodes are to be scanned and
how many times information is updated. But generally this program
uses system resources very little. Try it yourself and see.
All settings, window size and place, title bar hiding and font are
saved to pcbnode.ini file when exiting program.


Install

Start program and when settings dialog shows up, enter complete path
to USERNET.XXX file. Then set number of nodes to be scanned and that's
it. If you later change your USERNET.XXX location just delete pcbnode.ini
file and reconfigure program again.


Future

There is still one feature missing at the moment. I can't get window
scrolling work. So when it's done, you can scroll the window and see
other nodes which currently won't fit in the window. Any help would
be appreciated.


Restrictions

This version of PCB Node Information is unregistered which means that
there is one restriction. You can only scan one PCBoard node. If you
find this program usable I suggest you to register this. Additional
information is below.


Registration

Registration fee is $5.00 and you will be given the latest version of
PCBoard Node Information. And of course you will be allowed to scan
more nodes than just one in unregistered version.
Registrations can be done by mail. Send $5.00 and you will get latest
version by mail, via internet or by downloading it from my BBS.
If you would like to get registered version of this program by mail, send
diskette and enough money to send it back to you. If you want to download
it from my BBS, include login name and password. Program can be received
also via internet as UUENCODED, just include your email address.


Contact information

Registrations should be mailed to:

Miska Sulander
Torpankuja 1B12
40740 Jyväskylä
Finland

Internet: frodo@jybox.jyu.fi
Fidonet:  2:225/50


